---
title: Session_20231009
tags:
  - project_note 2024
  - uni
  - powi
---
|     Created      |  Last Modified   |       Exists Since        |
|:----------------:|:----------------:|:----------------:|
| `= this.file.ctime` | `= this.file.mtime` | `= date(now) - this.file.ctime`|

# Session_20231009

## Kassem_2022

The totality of relations encompasses the relation to nature, production processes, reproduction of daily life, social relations, technology and mental conceptions of the world (Marx, 1977: 493; Harvey, 2010).

- **RQ**: how does the organisation of workers (location-based vs. web-based) relate differently to their labour organisation and mobilisation in light of the COVID-19 pandemic? How do the co-evolving political-economic conditions of the pandemic dialectically relate to the agency of workers in location- and web-based platforms?
- **Method.**: This research is based on original fieldwork prior to the pandemic – both in the form of participant-observations at (trans)national union meetings and disruptive action by Amazon workers, as well as more than a dozen semi-structured (follow-up) interviews, and informal interviews, with warehouse workers in Germany during the period 2018–20. The digital fieldwork on MTurk is based on a small sample of 25 surveys conducted in 2019 prior to the pandemic and 25 during the pandemic in 2021. These samples are regarded rather as complementing the qualitative research than being quantitative representations of workforces. 
- Each of these platforms deploy a specific managementality with different nature and set of rules which the workers find different wys to resist to.
- Understandably, there is a grim distinction between the pre covid, and covid era.
- In the case of **MTurk**, the web-based nature alienates the workforce both from each other and the capital employs them. But they use some form of online solidarity.
- On the location-based side **Amazon Warehouse Workers** experienced an increased potential of weakeing of their marketplace power due to the pandemic's co-evolving political-economic conditions, but also a potential increment due to the growth of Amazon.
- Erik Olin Wright, differentiates more concretely between two forms of such structural power: one that is **marketplace** and one that is **workplace** (Wright, 2000: 962; Silver, 2003: 13).
	- Marketplace bargaining power refers to the worker’s position vis-à-vis workers in the larger labour market given the level of their skills scarcity (that is, capital’s dependence on labour), the levels of unemployment (that is, the reserve army of labour) and the dependence on the wageform for survival (that is, labour’s dependence on capital). 
	- In contrast, the workplace bargaining power refers more specifically to labour’s strategic position within different spheres of capital’s circuit to disrupt value realisation and accumulation (Silver, 2003: 13). Workplace and marketplace power are in and of themselves dialectically related, inform each other and are contextually bound. As such, this article analyses these within the COVID-19 context, to further underline how agency and structural power co-evolve along with the wider material conditions.
- Both groups do unskilled labor. And Amazon is while accumulating enormous amount of wealth, also introduces digital Taylorism, and deploys a whole control of the labour market as well. On top of that union-busting and rupturing any kind of collective action are in the realms of Amazon's behavioural scheme. 

**Warehouse Workers:**
- How Amazon appeals to workers? These present a possibility for subsistence given it provides economic security with an **above-minimum hourly wage** and benefits like health insurance. The dependency on these wages was further exacerbated when Amazon increased the hourly wage by a hazard pay of an additional 2 US Dollars/Euros/British Pounds between for instance April and June 2020 – which at a time of daunting unemployment, appeared even more appealing to workers (Kassem, 2020; UNI Global Union, 2020).
- When shedding light on the disruptive action in Europe, both France and Germany present noteworthy examples: the former demonstrates **how disruptive action and labour organisation resulted in a temporary halt of the circulation line** and even regulation of Amazon, while the **latter is particularly interesting considering that it is Amazon’s largest market outside of the US and the origin of the first instrumentalisation of workplace power** in Amazon’s history.
- While workers only first assumed their workplace power in 2019 in Minnesota, appearing as an example of dispersed resistance, labour organisation further erupted as a result of the conditions surrounding the pandemic across the US from California to New York. Unlike the other side of the Atlantic, the initial mobilisations of workplace power in the US did not necessarily unfold under the direct guidance of a union from the warehouse itself as seen in Germany. While unions in the US have supported these, warehouses had remained thus far union-free in the US. The industrial relations in the US, different to Germany, allow Amazon to take direct disciplinary action to curb the agency of workers in disruptive power and organisation, as demonstrated with the example of Christian Smalls in Staten Island warehouse. Framed as ‘not smart, or articulate’ – Smalls was dismissed for organising a walkout on the grounds of violating social distancing and quarantine after a co-worker tested positive (Blest, 2020; Alimahomed-Wilson and Reese, 2021).
- ==Can we say that the workers exploited a veto point?==

**MTurk Workers:**
In stark contrast to a location-based platform, MTurk constitutes a digital labour platform. It was initially established in 2005 for Amazon’s internal use, providing what Bezos calls ‘human-as-a service’
- As their weak marketplace and workplace power severely constrain, if not inhibit, their disruptive power, MTurk workers express their agency via digital spaces to foster solidarity and support each other vis-à-vis their interests and working conditions.
- In the case of MTurk, however, workers are primarily located in the US and India – which are currently the two countries where workers are paid in their local currencies and not via Amazon gift certificates. Thus, even within the same platform, workers from both the global North and the global South compete against one another on the labour market, though the exchange rate converts to higher piece-wages for the latter.
- **Unlike the Amazon warehouse workers, who despite a weakened marketplace power have experienced a growing workplace power, MTurk workers find themselves left with an even weaker workplace power.**
- A large workforce translates into larger potentialities when it comes to resisting and organising. Yet the web-based nature of the platform means not only do workers not confront capital, but they also do not convene within the same workplace and confront each other.
- Workers were already seeking digital spaces prior to the pandemic that implicitly if not explicitly support their class interests. These have included pushing against the precarious and individualistic nature of the work and the asymmetrical power relation between requesters and workers that is further characterised by a lack of transparency. One such example has been **Turkopticon, which flips the panopticon on its head by allowing workers to rate requesters (Irani and Silberman, 2013). Workers receive an approval rating for requesters to see, and Amazon only recently made it possible for workers to view requesters’ approval ratings for paying the piece-wages.** Turkopticon, along with other spaces such as One Hit Stop and Reddit, are essentially tools for workers to support each other in finding HITs, and therefore piece-wages, worth pursuing.
- Rather than approaching each other on the basis of competition given the larger conditions on the labour market, these workers reduce each other’s unpaid labour time in searching for better paid HITs and foster solidarity by answering each other’s questions on how to best navigate MTurk (Savage and Jarrahi, 2020).
- A recent effort has been to design a system architecture with ‘Solidarity Brokers’ – in which machine learning algorithms facilitate ways by which workers can support each other without taking too much time away from labouring. This thus aims to systematically reduce the unpaid labour time that goes into finding worthwhile piece-wages. This includes a ‘Peer Help Collector’ feature where workers via a plugin can leave a micro-advice of 100 characters related to, for instance, a completed task. Second, the system is designed to include an ‘Intelligent Selector’ which filters these tips according to the ones that others found most useful (initially by upvoting/downvoting these). The final component is the ‘Collective Help Display’ that displays via a machine learning algorithm the four top pieces of advice for workers to develop their skill set (Savage and Jarrahi, 2020).

**Conclusion**

MTurk case exemplifies how the digital mediation of class relations can tremendously weaken the workplace powers of workers – so that even within a pandemic, it is not possible to halt a production line given the precarious working conditions and the weakened marketplace power. For one, the labouring of MTurk workers was not altered directly as a result of political regulations, but continued along its pre-pandemic nature as workers labour remotely. Thus, expressing their agency was not necessarily in direct relation to the health risks but still needs to be understood in relation to the co-evolving material contexts of workers amid the pandemic. Here too do workers express their agency but in alternative forms and mediums, as they essentially form solidarity and advise each other on better working conditions.
While it is too early to grasp the long-term technological, political-economic and social consequences of the pandemic, the platform economy – and these two contrasting case studies – exemplify possible trajectories for the larger economy. They demonstrate the growing power of platforms, but also the implications for the labour market and capital-labour relations. The Amazon warehouse case demonstrates how the pandemic can dialectically relate to increased labour organisation and opportunities for solidarity, while MTurk sheds light on the larger trends towards the digital mediation of labour, which has been further exacerbated with the pandemic. This may relate to the increased rupture of workplace power and difficulties in organsing in traditional ways, but also opens up a discussion on the ways by which labour organises in alternative ways. An analysis of the dialectical relations and conditions that co-evolve alongside the context of COVID-19 sheds light therefore on the different implications for both capital and labour – which cannot be assumed to be experienced in a homogenous way across the platform economy – let alone the larger economy. It will be crucial to engage with what this means for the working conditions and the future of the labour movement.
### Concepts
- **Taylorism**: Taylorism, originally developed by Frederick Winslow Taylor in the early 20th century, is a management theory focused on improving economic efficiency and labor productivity through scientific methods. While Taylorism is primarily associated with the field of industrial management and organizational studies, its influence extends into various aspects of society, including political theory.+
- **Structural Power**

### Session
Platforms as spaces of inclusion and exclusion.
## References
1. [[2023WS_M7_VO_-_Governing_in_Digital Societies]]
2. Kassem, Sarrah. „Labour realities at Amazon and COVID-19: obstacles and collective possibilities for its warehouse workers and MTurk workers“. _Global Political Economy_ 1, Nr. 1 (Juli 2022): 59–79. [https://doi.org/10.1332/UVGT2823](https://doi.org/10.1332/UVGT2823).
3. 