---
category: literature_note
aliases: 
  - Political Representation
  - dovi2011
tags:
  - literature_note
  - zotero
  - 
citekey: dovi2011
---

|       Created       |    Last Modified    |          Exists Since           |
| :-----------------: | :-----------------: | :-----------------------------: |
| `= this.file.ctime` | `= this.file.mtime` | `= date(now) - this.file.ctime` |
>[!info] Metadata
> **FirstAuthor**:: Dovi, Suzanne  
~    
> **Title**:: Political Representation  
> **Year**:: 2011   
> **Citekey**:: dovi2011  
> **itemType**:: journalArticle  
> **Journal**:: **    

> [!link]-
> zotero_link:: [Dovi_2011_Political Representation.pdf](zotero://select/library/items/B5I8RW6W)

> [!cite]-
> citekey:: dovi2011

> [!abstract]-
> abstract:: 

> [!keywords]-
> keywords:: 

> [!authors]-
> authors:: Suzanne Dovi

> [!related]-

```dataview
TABLE created, updated as modified, tags, type
FROM ""
WHERE related != null
AND contains(related, "dovi2011")
```

> [!hypothesis]-
> hypothesis:: 

> [!methodology]- 
> methodology:: 

> [!result]- Result(s) 
> results::

> [!summary]- Summary of Key Points
> summary:: 

# Notes

| <mark class="hltr-grey">Highlight Color</mark> | Meaning                       |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| <mark class="hltr-yellow">Yellow</mark>        | Interesting Point             |
| <mark class="hltr-orange">Orange</mark>        | Important Point By Author     |
| <mark class="hltr-red">Red</mark>              | Disagree with Author          |
| <mark class="hltr-blue">Blue</mark>            | Support the Author            |
| <mark class="hltr-magenta">Magenta</mark>      | Important To Me               |
| <mark class="hltr-purple">Purple</mark>        | Literary Note To Lookup Later |
| <mark class="hltr-green">Green</mark>          | Example                       |
| <mark class="hltr-grey">Grey</mark>            | New term, - definition        |

- <mark class="hltr-gray">"1. some party that is representing (the representative, an organization, movement, state agency, etc.); 2. some party that is being represented (the constituents, the clients, etc.); 3. something that is being represented (opinions, perspectives, interests, discourses, etc.); and 4. a setting within which the activity of representation is taking place (the political context). 5. something that is being left out (the opinions, interests, and perspectives not voiced).”</mark> [Page 3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B5I8RW6W?page=3&annotation=6SNVNJ3W) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"Historically, the theoretical literature on political representation has focused on whether representatives should act as delegates or as trustees. Representatives who are delegates simply follow the expressed preferences of their constituents. James Madison (1787–8) is one of the leading historical figures who articulated a delegate conception of representation. Trustees are representatives who follow their own understanding of the best action to pursue. Edmund Burke (1790) is famous for arguing that  Parliament is not a congress of ambassadors from different and hostile interests, which interest each must maintain, as an agent and advocate, against other agents and advocates; but Parliament is a deliberative assembly of one nation, with one interest, that of the whole... You choose a member, indeed; but when you have chosen him he is not a member of Bristol, but he is a member of Parliament (115).”</mark> [Page 3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B5I8RW6W?page=3&annotation=H7QHZ439) 
	- <mark class="hltr-gray">"1. Formalistic Representation:  Brief Description. The institutional arrangements that precede and initiate representation. Formal representation has two dimensions: authorization and accountability.  Main Research Question. What is the institutional position of a representative?  Implicit Standards for Evaluating Representatives. None.  (Authorization):  Brief Description. The means by which a representative obtains his or her standing, status, position or office.  Main Research Questions. What is the process by which a representative gains power (e.g., elections) and what are the ways in which a representative can enforce his or her decisions?  Implicit Standards for Evaluating Representatives. No standards for  assessing how well a representative behaves. One can merely assess whether a representative legitimately holds his or her position.  (Accountability):  Brief Description. The ability of constituents to punish their representative for failing to act in accordance with their wishes (e.g. voting an elected official out of office) or the responsiveness of the representative to the constituents.  Main Research Question. What are the sanctioning mechanisms available to constituents? Is the representative responsive towards his or her constituents&#39; preferences?  Implicit Standards for Evaluating Representatives. No standards for assessing how well a representative behaves. One can merely determine whether a representative can be sanctioned or has been responsive.  2. Symbolic Representation:  Brief Description. The ways that a representative “stands for” the represented — that is, the meaning that a representative has for those being represented.  Main Research Question. What kind of response is invoked by the representative in those being represented?  Implicit Standards for Evaluating Representatives. Representatives are assessed by the degree of acceptance that the representative has among the represented.  3. Descriptive Representation:  Brief Description. The extent to which a representative resembles those being represented.”</mark> [Page 4](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B5I8RW6W?page=4&annotation=NYYFXEN6) 
	- <mark class="hltr-gray">"Main Research Question. Does the representative look like, have common interests with, or share certain experiences with the represented?  Implicit Standards for Evaluating Representatives. Assess the representative by the accuracy of the resemblance between the representative and the represented.  4. Substantive Representation:  Brief Description. The activity of representatives—that is, the actions taken on the behalf of, in the interest of, as an agent of, and as a substitute for the represented.  Main Research Question. Does the representative advance the policy preferences that serve the interests of the represented?  Implicit Standards for Evaluating Representatives. Assess a representative by the  extent to which policy outcomes advanced by a representative serve “the best interests” of their constituents.”</mark> [Page 6](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B5I8RW6W?page=6&annotation=FGJ7I6UD) 
	- <mark class="hltr-gray">"Domestic transformations also reveal the need to update contemporary understandings of political representation. Associational life — social movements, interest groups, and civic associations—is increasingly recognized as important for the survival of representative democracies.”</mark> [Page 7](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/B5I8RW6W?page=7&annotation=LUAWD2Y5) 

> [!context]-
> ==(How this article relates to other work in the field; how it ties in with key issues and findings by others, including yourself)==
> context:: 

> [!significance]-
> ==(to the field; in relation to your own work)==
> significance:: 