---
category: literature_note
aliases: 
  - The Territorialization of Cyberspace*
  - lambach2020
tags:
  - literature_note
  - zotero
  - 
citekey: lambach2020
---

|       Created       |    Last Modified    |          Exists Since           |
| :-----------------: | :-----------------: | :-----------------------------: |
| `= this.file.ctime` | `= this.file.mtime` | `= date(now) - this.file.ctime` |
>[!info] Metadata
> **FirstAuthor**:: Lambach, Daniel  
~    
> **Title**:: The Territorialization of Cyberspace*  
> **Year**:: 2020   
> **Citekey**:: lambach2020  
> **itemType**:: journalArticle  
> **Journal**:: *International Studies Review*  
> **Volume**:: 22  
> **Issue**:: 3   
> **Pages**:: 482-506  
> **url**:: https://academic.oup.com/isr/article/22/3/482/5488469
> **DOI**:: 10.1093/isr/viz022    

> [!link]-
> zotero_link:: [Lambach_2020_.pdf](zotero://select/library/items/DZUMRTBI)

> [!cite]-
> citekey:: lambach2020

> [!abstract]-
> abstract:: Abstract
            There are widespread worries about the impending fragmentation of the internet. Reviewing the IR literature on cyberspace and internet governance, this paper demonstrates that these debates rest on very traditional understandings of territory and the state, focusing on ways that hard-shelled “power containers” are recreated in cyberspace. Using a practice-oriented conceptual framework drawing on insights from critical geography, the paper highlights how state, corporate, and private actors deterritorialize and reterritorialize cyberspace. Results indicate that there are multiple ways to territorialize cyberspace beyond the reconstruction of the “national territory” and that a multitude of actors engage in territorializing practices. This allows for a more nuanced reevaluation of the “internet fragmentation” discourse.

> [!keywords]-
> keywords:: 

> [!authors]-
> authors:: Daniel Lambach

> [!related]-

```dataview
TABLE created, updated as modified, tags, type
FROM ""
WHERE related != null
AND contains(related, "lambach2020")
```

> [!hypothesis]-
> hypothesis:: 

> [!methodology]- 
> methodology:: 

> [!result]- Result(s) 
> results::

> [!summary]- Summary of Key Points
> summary:: 

# Notes

| <mark class="hltr-grey">Highlight Color</mark> | Meaning                       |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| <mark class="hltr-yellow">Yellow</mark>        | Interesting Point             |
| <mark class="hltr-orange">Orange</mark>        | Important Point By Author     |
| <mark class="hltr-red">Red</mark>              | Disagree with Author          |
| <mark class="hltr-blue">Blue</mark>            | Support the Author            |
| <mark class="hltr-magenta">Magenta</mark>      | Important To Me               |
| <mark class="hltr-purple">Purple</mark>        | Literary Note To Lookup Later |
| <mark class="hltr-green">Green</mark>          | Example                       |
| <mark class="hltr-grey">Grey</mark>            | New term                      |

- <mark class="hltr-gray">"There is an undisputable sense of fin de siècle about the internet, as if it were about to break apart into loosely coupled subnetworks, ending the era of the “open web.””</mark> [Page 1](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=1&annotation=433ZR47S) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"According to Barlow and others (e.g., Johnson and Post 1996), cyberspace is “a terra nullius in which social relations and laws have no historical existence and must be reinvented” (Chenou 2014, 216).”</mark> [Page 2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=2&annotation=65CAQNAM) 
	 	- This actually shows, we as people has failed to create a self governed space around us. We couldn't even achieve some sense of security among us, and the governments were able to take over. 
	- <mark class="hltr-gray">"In this paper, I want to challenge all three of these assumptions. First, drawing on critical geography, I argue that territory and borders should be viewed as fluid, adaptable practices rather than as static and immutable structures.3 Territorialization is about more than just erecting fixed boundaries; it is better understood as the process of defining, delimiting, and inscribing space. Cyberspace is a prime example of new territorialities emerging, changing, and being contested. This perspective is not without its antecedents in critical contributions to the cyberspace literature (e.g., Nissenbaum 2004;Olson 2005 ;Cohen 2007 ), but it is not part of mainstream thinking. Second, many instances of territorialization are based on exercises of power without any claim to sovereignty. Speaking of territorial control does not even imply absolute control or some analogy to the monopoly of force; merely claiming control is already a meaningful act. Hence, territories can be overlapping and nonexclusive. Third, networks and territories can be in tension, but they can also be compatible, even mutually constitutive. It is best not to assume a particular outcome or to assign ontological priority to either.”</mark> [Page 2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=2&annotation=2RQULLXF) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"Furthermore, contributions from science and technology studies (STS) highlight that the material infrastructure of the internet exerts its own “sociotechnical agency” (Musiani 2014, 275) and that technologies carry embedded politics (Winner 1980) that prestructure emerging spaces (Balzacq and Dunn Cavelty 2016;Mager 2018 ).”</mark> [Page 3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=3&annotation=SASFPDB3) 
	- <mark class="hltr-orange">"“there is a strong and persistent tension between state sovereignty, which is territorially bounded, and the nonterritorial space for social interaction created by networked computers””</mark> [Page 3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=3&annotation=FN4VA84X) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"There are different ways of defining “network,” whether referring to a technical network or networks between actors. Networks are by nature decentralized constructs characterized by self-organization, emergence, and distributed activity (Escobar 2007, 110).”</mark> [Page 3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=3&annotation=RR4KZEW7) 
	- <mark class="hltr-gray">"Networked governance”</mark> [Page 4](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=4&annotation=H99AGRAV) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"Debates about the state’s role in cyberspace often turn on the question of sovereignty (e.g., Jayawardane, Larik, and Kaul 2016,66;Thiel 2012,66).Inhisreview of the debate, Mueller (2017) sees cyberspace under threat from a sovereigntist agenda that seeks to establish state control over the internet, thereby threatening its very integrity.”</mark> [Page 4](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=4&annotation=DDZ9A7N2) 
	- <mark class="hltr-orange">"According to Giddens (1985) andScott (1998) , collecting and storing information to make societies “legible” is a major aspect of state formation and state control. Such access to information also facilitates nonhierarchical modes of control, as Debrix argues, drawing on Foucault’s (1991) notion of discipline: “Privacy, selfishness, and individualist preferences are eliminated by the mere fact that the omnipresence of the controlling eye is a constant reminder that punishment is always possible” (Debrix 1999,269).Deibert and Rohozinski (2010) give several examples of state control in cyberspace, such as legal measures, informal requests made to data-collecting private actors, outsourcing content control to private companies operating key infrastructure, just-in-time-blocking, patriotic hacking, deploying malware, and targeted surveillance.”</mark> [Page 5](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=5&annotation=8BTH996Y) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"These intermediaries, usually large corporations that provide specialized services in cyberspace (e.g., Facebook, Google), are susceptible to state pressure because not complying with state demands represents a significant commercial risk, not just in “First World” countries but also in countries like Thailand and Turkey, which routinely censor content. This can also have extraterritorial effects when intermediaries acquiesce to demands without distinguishing between users in different countries. For instance, most websites comply with the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), propagating this regulation even in countries outside of the European Union (EU).”</mark> [Page 5](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=5&annotation=RCMQUTB5) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"shows that the “cyberspace as place” metaphor (instead of a public utility approach, e.g., “cyberspace as phone network” or as “superhighway”) has had legal ramifications. Courts have used this metaphor as the foundation for judgments that allowed for private ownership over parts of cyberspace, leading to the “propertisation of the internet” (Olson 2005, 12; see also Manjikian 2010, 389). The same “place” metaphor also makes possible the territorialization of cyberspace by security-minded state officials.”</mark> [Page 6](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=6&annotation=JU4CK3QT) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"There are two reasons to reappraise the value of territory for understanding cyberspace: First, territorial ontologies are widespread among decision makers in states and corporations, as well as among the general public, and second, territories are not as antithetical to the character of the internet as is often claimed (Schmidt 2014, 185–89).”</mark> [Page 6](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=6&annotation=2BXXT9HM) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"“territories are always manifestations of power relations [and] require perpetual public effort to establish and maintain””</mark> [Page 7](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=7&annotation=9WELVH8L) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"how territories are constituted and how they impact the agency of actors, without dissolving said agency into some assemblage or actor-network.”</mark> [Page 7](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=7&annotation=G699KHRJ) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"However, in contrast to traditional notions of the “territorial state” or “territorial jurisdiction,” territories in cyberspace are nonexclusive, overlapping, and intersecting constructs, whose shapes and characteristics are constantly being renegotiated. Given this complexity, we should not infer that cyberspace is a singular space (Graham 2013, 180–81)”</mark> [Page 8](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=8&annotation=N2T7283C) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"Geolocation is used for a variety of purposes. First, for “geoblocking”; that is, denying access to content based on the user’s physical location.”</mark> [Page 8](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=8&annotation=5TMTD9F6) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"some lingering doubts about the accuracy of geolocation services, geoblocking has become an accepted instrument for companies to: first, ensure compliance with local laws (Trimble 2016); second, redirect users to user-specific or countryspecific content (Svantesson 2017, 112); third, allow governments to apply local laws and regulations; fourth, maintain the system of licensing intellectual properties for specific territories and markets (Trimble 2014); and fifth, to add geographical metadata to media such as photographs, videos, etc. (“geotagging,” Graham and Zook 2011).”</mark> [Page 9](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=9&annotation=ZXZUXQYA) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"erspective of the engaged actors” (Mayer 2008,416). In the TPSN framework, territories are structured according to principles like bordering, bounding, parcelization, and enclosure. Networks are characterized by interconnectivity, interdependence, and transversal or rhizomatic differentiation (Jessop et al. 2008, 393). These principles are reflected in various practices and processes in cyberspace. Importantly, they are not practiced by all actors in the same way and to the same degree. Metaphors like Neuland indicate that political and commercial actors treat cyberspace more as a territory than as a network (Graham 2013). As Trimble puts it, “governments want to have the territorial scope of regulation and enforcement on the Internet mirror the territorial limits of the physical world” (Trimble 2012, 570). At the same time, interconnectivity is vital for the network as such and for its many users (DeNardis 2014,107–30),evenforthesame corporations and states whose large-scale territorial projects undermine this very goal.”</mark> [Page 10](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=10&annotation=8QWGBLKB) 
	- <mark class="hltr-gray">"I understand deterritorialization and reterritorialization as the momentary outcome or side effect of sociotechnical processes. Deterritorialization and reterritorialization may also be the aim of deliberate strategy, although, given the complexity of such an endeavor, the outcomes of such strategies will be uncertain. Those social processes that produce deterritorialization and reterritorialization are constituted by practices that act upon territory or that have territorial consequences.”</mark> [Page 10](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=10&annotation=5YFJ94VB) 
	- <mark class="hltr-orange">"Deterritorialization refers to the dissolution, erosion, or destruction of old territorial forms of organizing social relations whereas reterritorialization means the restructuring or reconstitution of social relations in some other territorial form (Popescu 2010, 722). These processes always involve power in some fashion (Ó Tuathail and Luke 1994, 382). They are also inseparable from each other and occur simultaneously, rather than sequentially: social relations acquire other territorial configurations and boundaries even as they lose the previous ones. This means that the new territoriality of social relations, while being qualitatively different, will include vestiges of the old one. (Popescu 2010, 724)”</mark> [Page 11](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=11&annotation=AXJEB8DU) 
	- <mark class="hltr-orange">"Thinking about territorial practices in cyberspace allows us to ask how practices constitute territories and how these territories impact future practices. In my understanding of practice, I follow the definition offered by Adler and Pouliot: “practices are socially meaningful patterns of action, which, in being performed more or less competently, simultaneously embody, act out, and possibly reify background knowledge and discourse in and on the material world” (Adler and Pouliot 2011, 4). Adler and Pouliot identify five elements of practice: (1) practices are performative, (2) practices follow regular patterns without determining behavior, (3) practices are interpreted and understood in terms of social relations, (4) practices depend on background knowledge that gives them a particular purpose, and (5) practices link discourses with the material world because the discourses give meaning to the act”</mark> [Page 11](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=11&annotation=MPGXEJNP) 
	- <mark class="hltr-orange">"So, what can be considered a territorial practice? For the purposes of this paper, I define a territorial practice as any practice whose performance is aimed at deconstructing existing territories or (re-)creating new territories.”</mark> [Page 12](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=12&annotation=A6669JAM) 
	- <mark class="hltr-orange">"Based on suggestions from Blacksell (2006, 21–27) and Vollaard (2009), I suggest a threefold taxonomy of territorial practices that are applicable to cyberspace. These kinds of practices somewhat mirror the three aspects of territoriality as discussed above, the creation of a space, the delimitation of a space, and control over a space: 1. Reification of a territory; for example, on maps, as a statistical or administrative category, in art, in language 2. Communication of territorial boundaries through symbols and boundary markers 3. Regular displays of power; for example, through patrols, policing, taxation, law-making, surveillance”</mark> [Page 12](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=12&annotation=QBWRR5J6) 
	- <mark class="hltr-orange">"The traditional narrative is that these private territories fell victim to encroachment and enclosure by states and corporations, who built their own territories, forcing users/creators (“netizens” in the parlance of the early internet) from their digital land. I would modify this narrative in two important ways. First, cyberspace was 9 There is insufficient space to engage in a deeper discussion of what technology means and how it relates to politics and practices of territorialization. For an overview of STS and international relations see, for example, McCarthy (2018). 10 I speak of users and creators or users/creators to foreground the agency of the individuals who are not mere consumers but co-creators of their world. D o w n l o a d e d f r o m h t t p s : / / a c a d e m i c . o u p . c o m / i s r / a d v a n c e a r t i c l e a b s t r a c t / d o i / 1 0 . 1 0 9 3 / i s r / v i z 0 2 2 / 5 4 8 8 4 6 9 b y N o t t i n g h a m T r e n t U n i v e r s i t y u s e r o n 1 7 A u g u s t 2 0 1”</mark> [Page 12](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=12&annotation=YBJKVTVY) 
	- <mark class="hltr-orange">"DANIEL LAMBACH 13 never truly “free” from state interference. From its very inception as ARPANET, states have been active in/on the internet, and corporations followed shortly thereafter (Bing 2009;Elton and Carey 2013 ).”</mark> [Page 13](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=13&annotation=YWFT9Z5F) 
	- <mark class="hltr-orange">"These instances of reterritorialization exhibit all forms of territorial practices. Users/creators reify their territories through the creation of names, logos, and designs and often refer to their territories in spatial metaphors (“you’re in . . .,” “welcome to . . .”). Boundaries are created and communicated through forms of entry protection; for example, requiring passwords, the creation of an account, or an invitation from existing members or administrators. There are also communicative displays of inside/outside. For example, two rival Reddit communities (“subreddits,” Robards 2018) on British politics, r/ukpolitics and r/unitedkingdom, often refer to each other as “over there.” Displays of power by moderators and administrators can be substantial; for example, censoring/deleting messages collecting user data, or banning/inviting users.”</mark> [Page 13](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=13&annotation=RWLNH7FA) 
	- <mark class="hltr-gray">"country-code top-level domains (ccTLDs)”</mark> [Page 14](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=14&annotation=HA75XQKY) 
	- <mark class="hltr-orange">"Cyberwar and the state territorial container in cyberspace are mutually constitutive. This is why national security apparatuses have proclaimed cyberspace to be the “fifth domain of warfare” (after land, sea, air, and space) (Manjikian 2010, 384–88; Dunn Cavelty 2015). As a result, many countries have expanded or are expanding their cyberdefense and cyberwarfare capabilities (Fliegauf 2016, 79; Mueller 2017, 73–77). The division of “inside” and “outside” is also important in doctrinal debates about cyberdefense. In other words, should cyberdefense be solely about protecting the “territory,” or should it also include active measures (“active defense,” “hacking back”) that reach beyond the territory and deterritorialize the site of conflict?”</mark> [Page 15](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=15&annotation=3TAAGYU3) 
	- <mark class="hltr-orange">"Beyond this reterritorialization of cyberspace into state containers, some states, given the requisite resources and power, can also create regulatory territories,which expand the reach of a state’s laws and regulations in extraterritorial ways.14 The structure of cyberspace and of internet governance makes such a differentiated approach possible, even necessary. States have great control over infrastructure localized in their country but little control over global aspects of cyberspace. However, very powerful countries like the United States or coalitions like the EU can hope to make extraterritorial claims stick.”</mark> [Page 15](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=15&annotation=GXTQJS3X) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"pute between the French Data Protection Agency (CNIL) and Google relating to the EU “Right to be Forgotten,” where the CNIL demands that Google enforce its orders to delist personal information relating to a claimant from Google’s search results globally, not just for users geolocated in the EU (Daskal 2018, 214–88).”</mark> [Page 15](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=15&annotation=XQYPX54K) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"Put very simply, there is an ongoing and unresolved process of norm contestation between a multistakeholder approach and a multilateral model of internet governance, much of which turns on whether extraterritorial regulatory territories are permissible.”</mark> [Page 16](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=16&annotation=UBZQ58RR) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"The second position is informed by ideas of cybersovereignty and argues for a more state-centric form of governance, mediated by intergovernmental organizations like the United Nations (UN) or the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). This position is championed by Russia and China, who believe that “multi-stakeholderism is a front for maintaining Western-centric dominance of this new ‘global commons’” (Lantis and Bloomberg 2018, 156) and does not respect national sovereignty (Aronczyk and Budnitsky 2017; Wei 2017;seealsoWarner 2012, 792–93; Maurer 2017, 50–67).”</mark> [Page 16](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=16&annotation=2L4V5HVM) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"This was also visible in the UN Group of Governmental Experts on Developments in the Field of Information and Telecommunications in the Context of International Security (UN GGE). Since 2004, expert groups have discussed various security-related issues regarding information and telecommunications. And even though the 2017 meeting failed acrimoniously, it should not be forgotten that the 2013 and 2015 meetings had agreed that international law, including the UN Charter, applied to cyberspace as well (Sukumar 2017) and that the use of proxies in offensive cyberoperations should be discouraged (Maurer 2017,5)”</mark> [Page 16](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=16&annotation=PLV4WMGN) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"More recently, less visibly enclosed “ecosystems” (like Apple, Google, Microsoft, or Amazon) have become the dominant model. Ecosystems are based on the integration of multiple services, creating a denser network at their core, while their borders remain relatively porous.”</mark> [Page 17](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=17&annotation=DPACB32J) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"“Big Content” companies are creating proprietary hardware, like the Amazon Kindle, an e-book reader, or Facebook’s (failed) “free basics” internet access program in India, to entrench their positions and erect technological barriers around their ecosystems.”</mark> [Page 17](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=17&annotation=KGPNQN4V) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"As these examples show, corporations reterritorialize cyberspace to support their entrepreneurial activities. This is partly due to many corporations’ ambivalent stance vis-à-vis politics and law. On the one hand, corporations will typically refrain from overt law-breaking to minimize business risks. On the other, internet companies from the United States, which run the largest globally operating corporate territories in cyberspace, generally subscribe to the Silicon Valley ideology (exemplified by the “move fast and break things” creed espoused by Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg) that state regulation is bad and should be resisted.”</mark> [Page 17](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=17&annotation=XLVIQ4H4) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"Corporate territories have been somewhat underestimated in the “internet fragmentation” literature, but even this cursory review shows how companies have been engaging in territorial practices from the moment they entered cyberspace, although some of their boundary-drawing practices are quite subtle. One upshot of the proliferation of corporate territories is that the number of intersections between corporate and state territories has increased exponentially. And while the publicprivate co-governance of these interactions need not be conflictual, it has turned out to be very complicated in a number of high-profile cases.”</mark> [Page 18](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=18&annotation=9GMPA4ZW) 
	- <mark class="hltr-orange">"The previous sections have made some points clear: First, borders in cyberspace can be more or less porous. Some territories display relatively hard shells (e.g., password-protected intranets), whereas others are more permeable (e.g., corporate ecosystems, most state boundaries). Second, territories in cyberspace are rarely static but can be adapted, shifted, and even moved. Third, territories in cyberspace are not exclusive but will overlap and intermingle. A user will at any point in time be “in” multiple territories; for example, the jurisdictional space of one or multiple states by virtue of their own physical location and that of the server they are visiting, a corporate territory through the website they signed up for, a networked territory formed by proprietary hardware devices, and closed chat groups with their friends.”</mark> [Page 18](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=18&annotation=NHPXYEZD) 
	- <mark class="hltr-orange">"The first is that we should not underestimate the conflictual nature of the processes sketched above. Even as I have downplayed risks of cyberwar and the escalatory potential of aggressive acts in cyberspace, the renegotiation of spaces and the deployment of cyber capabilities can have a significant impact on global politics. We need to look no further than Russian cyber operations during electoral D o w n l o a d e d f r o m h t t p s : / / a c a d e m i c . o u p . c o m / i s r / a d v a n c e a r t i c l e a b s t r a c t / d o i / 1 0 . 1 0 9 3 / i s r / v i z 0 2 2 / 5 4 8 8 4 6 9 b y N o t t i n g h a m T r e n t U n i v e r s i t y u s e r o n 1 7 A u g u s t 2 0 1”</mark> [Page 19](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=19&annotation=FUIVWAG5) 
	- <mark class="hltr-orange">"20 The Territorialization of Cyberspace campaigns in several Western countries to support that point. Territorial conflicts have also become visible in conflicts between governments, corporations, and digital activists who have moved their spaces of operation from public social media (Facebook, Twitter, Reddit) to closed channels (Telegram, Discord) and anonymous forums (4chan, Voat). Conflicts also arise between states and corporations over regulation of content.”</mark> [Page 20](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DZUMRTBI?page=20&annotation=5TZPREU6) 

> [!context]-
> ==(How this article relates to other work in the field; how it ties in with key issues and findings by others, including yourself)==
> context:: 

> [!significance]-
> ==(to the field; in relation to your own work)==
> significance:: 