---
category: literature_note
aliases: 
  - The concept of representation
  - pitkin1967
tags:
  - literature_note
  - zotero
  - ✅
citekey: pitkin1967
---

|       Created       |    Last Modified    |          Exists Since           |
| :-----------------: | :-----------------: | :-----------------------------: |
| `= this.file.ctime` | `= this.file.mtime` | `= date(now) - this.file.ctime` |
>[!info] Metadata
> **FirstAuthor**:: Pitkin, Hanna Fenichel  
~    
> **Title**:: The concept of representation  
> **Year**:: 1967   
> **Citekey**:: pitkin1967  
> **itemType**:: book  
> **Publisher**:: Univ. of California Press  
> **Location**:: Berkeley, Calif.  
> **ISBN**:: 978-0-520-02156-3    

> [!link]-
> zotero_link:: [Pitkin_1967_.pdf](zotero://select/library/items/UVLBDELP)

> [!cite]-
> citekey:: pitkin1967

> [!abstract]-
> abstract:: 

> [!keywords]-
> keywords:: ✅

> [!authors]-
> authors:: Hanna Fenichel Pitkin

> [!related]-

```dataview
TABLE created, updated as modified, tags, type
FROM ""
WHERE related != null
AND contains(related, "pitkin1967")
```

> [!hypothesis]-
> hypothesis:: 

> [!methodology]- 
> methodology:: 

> [!result]- Result(s) 
> results::

> [!summary]- Summary of Key Points
> summary:: 

# Notes

| <mark class="hltr-grey">Highlight Color</mark> | Meaning                       |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| <mark class="hltr-yellow">Yellow</mark>        | Interesting Point             |
| <mark class="hltr-orange">Orange</mark>        | Important Point By Author     |
| <mark class="hltr-red">Red</mark>              | Disagree with Author          |
| <mark class="hltr-blue">Blue</mark>            | Support the Author            |
| <mark class="hltr-magenta">Magenta</mark>      | Important To Me               |
| <mark class="hltr-purple">Purple</mark>        | Literary Note To Lookup Later |
| <mark class="hltr-green">Green</mark>          | Example                       |
| <mark class="hltr-grey">Grey</mark>            | New term                      |

- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"representing here means acting in the interest of the represented, in a manner responsive to them. The representative must act independently; his action must involve discretion and judgment; he must be the one who acts. The represented must also be (conceived as) capable of independent action and judgment, not merely being taken care of.”</mark> [Page 216](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=216&annotation=M7WU46E6) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"Where representation is conceived as being of unattached abstractions, the consultation of anyone&#39;s wishes or opinions is least likely to seem a significant part of representing. Burke did not think that representing had much to do with consulting the represented or doing what they wanted; that is because he was talking about the representation of unattached interests—interests to which no particular persons were so specially related that they could claim to be privileged to define the interest.”</mark> [Page 217](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=217&annotation=HFLH7QDK) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"If the representative is an ordinary, fallible man with no special knowledge or abilities, it seems highhanded and unjustifiable for him to ignore his constituents. Again the extremes are outside the concept altogether: a true expert taking care of a helpless child is no representative, and a man who merely consults and reflects without acting is not representing in the sense of substantively acting for others. But the intermediate range is broad.”</mark> [Page 218](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=218&annotation=9JVUE4EW) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"Political issues, by and large, are found in the intermediate range, where the idea of representing as a substantive acting for others does apply. Political questions are not likely to be as arbitrary as a choice between two foods; nor are they likely to be questions of knowledge to which an expert can supply the one correct answer. They are questions about action, about what should be done; consequently they involve both facts and value commitments, both ends and means.”</mark> [Page 219](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=219&annotation=35YD74WC) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"But this is precisely the kind of context in which representation as a substantive activity is relevant. For representation is not needed where we expect scientifically true answers, where no value commitments, no decisions, no judgment are involved. And representation is impossible (except in a formalistic or symbolic or descriptive sense) where a totally arbitrary choice is called for, where deliberation and reason are irrelevant. We need representation precisely where we are not content to leave matters to the expert; we can have substantive representation only where interest is involved, that is, where decisions are not merely arbitrary choices.”</mark> [Page 219](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=219&annotation=7E7NKECN) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"We have said that the representative must pursue his constituents&#39; interest, in a manner at least potentially responsive to their wishes, and that conflict between them must be justifiable in terms of that interest. But what becomes of terms like &quot;interest&quot; and &quot;justifiable&quot; if there can be lifelong, profound disagreement among men as to what their interest is—disagreement that remains despite deliberation and justification and argument? To the extent that this is so, the possibility of a substantive acting for others breaks down, and that view of the concept becomes irrelevant to politics.”</mark> [Page 220](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=220&annotation=IVQWIQLM) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"Within any functioning representative system, the same considerations apply to the personality of the legislator and to the particular issue before him. A representative who characteristically feels sure of his own knowledge and convictions is more likely to act on them; one who tends to feel skeptical and cautious about his own views is more likely to want to know what his constituents think.”</mark> [Page 221](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=221&annotation=I4UBBMY6) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"Furthermore, the representative who is an elected legislator does not represent his constituents on just any business, and by himself in isolation. He works with other representatives in an institutionalized context at a specific task—the governing of a nation or a state. This reintroduces the familiar problem of local or partial interests versus the national interest, and the question of the political representative&#39;s role with respect to them.”</mark> [Page 222](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=222&annotation=LV897QXX) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"If a man represents a particular constituency in the legislature, is his duty to pursue its interest or the interest of the nation as a whole?”</mark> [Page 222](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=222&annotation=FP2CX4MR) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"And, in a practical sense, it is politically and socially important that local and partial interests not be allowed to outweigh the needs and interests of the nation as a whole.”</mark> [Page 223](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=223&annotation=N4QVM6SG) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"About final-objective-interest one could say that the interest of the parts adds up to the interest of the whole, but such an optimistic formula must not be allowed to obscure the obvious conflicts in initial-interest-claim. Politics entails the reconciliation of conflicting claims, each usually with some justice on its side; the harmony of final-objective-interests must be created.”</mark> [Page 225](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=225&annotation=N362GAJ9) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"The representative is, typically, both special pleader and judge, an agent of his locality as well as a governor of the nation.”</mark> [Page 225](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=225&annotation=77QBNGID) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"while it may be difficult to determine the interest”</mark> [Page 226](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=226&annotation=EHCTPL85) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"220 POLITICAL REPRESENTATION or wishes of a single individual, it is infinitely more difficult to do so for a constituency of thousands. On many issues a constituency may not have any interest, or its members may have several conflicting interests.13 And the representative knows of the voters&#39; ignorance and apathy and irrationality, the diversity of their views and interests. Further, he seldom has access to accurate information about what views and interests they do have.”</mark> [Page 227](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=227&annotation=ZUJR3NPY) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"To act effectively he must keep in mind not only the formal and informal rules of his legislative body but also its place in the whole structure of government.”</mark> [Page 227](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=227&annotation=8G6X8YSS) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"n the third place, he will also have views and opinions, at least on some issues. He will feel that some measures are intrinsically unsound, immoral, or undesirable.”</mark> [Page 227](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=227&annotation=3GTR47AI) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"The majority of my constituents occasionally lack knowledge of relevant facts and circumstances. For me not to take this into account would be a violation of my oath of office as a legislator, not to mention my obligation to my own conscience, judgment and sense of duty.”</mark> [Page 229](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=229&annotation=S2BRRZ3K) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"Think of the same body as a symbol and you will almost inevitably be more concerned with its psychological impact on the minds of the people than with any accuracy of correspondence between it and the nation. Think of it, in turn, as an agent or collection of agents, and your interest will focus on other concerns. Thus it is necessary to know what each view implies and assumes, and which view is appropriate under the circumstances.”</mark> [Page 233](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=233&annotation=TDSCV4XY) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"It is sometimes argued, particularly by authorization theorists, that every government represents its subjects in the sense that it has authority over them and makes laws for them.26 Governments do have that authority; the authority to make laws seems part of the very meaning of government. Yet authority is not coextensive with representation; one need not represent in order to have authority to issue orders. But a government also acts in the name of its subjects. Thus a slightly modified position would be that all governments represent in the formalistic sense that their actions not only bind their subjects but are attributed to these subjects.”</mark> [Page 235](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=235&annotation=CBZXKGF7) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"The will on which a government rests may be democratic, even if oligarchic or plutocratic influences are powerful in creating it. It is quite possible that an interested minority may so control the avenues of information and suggestion that a majority will suffer persuasion contrary to their own interests. The decision of a leader may induce millions to support measures which they would have opposed if his prestige had been thrown to the other side.”</mark> [Page 236](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=236&annotation=N93TR6FX) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"If support for the regime is manufactured by way of a monopoly of control over the media of mass communication, supplemented by severe coercion against oppositional elements. ... If a political regime relies heavily on a highly organized propaganda monopoly, . . . and ruthlessly suppresses all political dissent, one must conclude that no amount of evidence of public support to the regime can prove that the people&#39;s genuine interests are not being exploited in the interest of the ruling few.”</mark> [Page 239](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=239&annotation=LJKXUXA7) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"By the same token, no amount of public support can then prove that the government is a representative one. When a ruler manipulates an inert mass of followers to accord with his will, we hesitate to say that he represents them. In the same way, if an interest group engages in a vast propaganda campaign to persuade the public in favor of some measure, we do not regard this activity as representation of the public.”</mark> [Page 239](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=239&annotation=H6QLBEYG) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"to the contrary. There need not be a constant activity of responding, but there must be a constant condition of responsiveness, of potential readiness to respond. It is not that a government represents only when it is acting in response to an express popular wish; a representative government is one which is responsive to popular wishes when there are some. Hence there must be institutional arrangements for responsiveness to these wishes.”</mark> [Page 240](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=240&annotation=SXCU9GU3) 
	- <mark class="hltr-red">"We do not say that a government is representative today, because it happens to be responding to popular wishes, and stops being representative the next day because it is frustrating them. Representative government is not defined by particular actions at a particular moment, but by long-term systematic arrangements—by institutions and the way in which they function. No particular act of compliance with popular demands is proof of a representative government, although a few serious cases of the frustration of legitimate popular demands will serve as counterevidence.”</mark> [Page 241](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=241&annotation=DAKPQUSH) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"our basic prerequisites seem very few. We would be reluctant to consider any system a representative government unless it held regular elections, which were &quot;genuine&quot; or &quot;free.&quot;36 We would be reluctant, further, to consider a government representative unless it included some sort of collegiate representative body in a more than advisory capacity.37 We would not readily accept a system as representative in which the entire government was in the hands of a single ruler, even if he was subject to reelection at regular intervals. Perhaps it is merely historical tradition that there should be a collegiate body composed of representatives of the various &quot;parts&quot; of the society.”</mark> [Page 242](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=242&annotation=4DY4YH7U) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"For whatever reasons, and with no deliberate, common purpose, men may gradually develop fixed ways of doing something—institutionalized behavior which has become habitual. From this patterned behavior they may begin to abstract express ideas about what it is for, how it is to be done, what principles and purposes underlie it.”</mark> [Page 243](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=243&annotation=3MR8XLA9) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"And, in due time, those principles may themselves come to be used as new aims for revising the institution, as critical standards for assessing the way in which it functions and improving it. Again a tension between practice and principle can arise.”</mark> [Page 243](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=243&annotation=F894HU7A) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"Rather, it should present a continuing but not hopeless challenge: to construct institutions and train individuals in such a way that they engage in the pursuit of the public interest, the genuine representation of the public; and, at the same time, to remain critical of those institutions and that training, so that they are always open to further interpretation and reform.”</mark> [Page 247](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=247&annotation=QT86RV4I) 
	
- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"representing here means acting in the interest of the represented, in a manner responsive to them. The representative must act independently; his action must involve discretion and judgment; he must be the one who acts. The represented must also be (conceived as) capable of independent action and judgment, not merely being taken care of.”</mark> [Page 216](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=216&annotation=M7WU46E6) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"Where representation is conceived as being of unattached abstractions, the consultation of anyone&#39;s wishes or opinions is least likely to seem a significant part of representing. Burke did not think that representing had much to do with consulting the represented or doing what they wanted; that is because he was talking about the representation of unattached interests—interests to which no particular persons were so specially related that they could claim to be privileged to define the interest.”</mark> [Page 217](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=217&annotation=HFLH7QDK) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"If the representative is an ordinary, fallible man with no special knowledge or abilities, it seems highhanded and unjustifiable for him to ignore his constituents. Again the extremes are outside the concept altogether: a true expert taking care of a helpless child is no representative, and a man who merely consults and reflects without acting is not representing in the sense of substantively acting for others. But the intermediate range is broad.”</mark> [Page 218](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=218&annotation=9JVUE4EW) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"Political issues, by and large, are found in the intermediate range, where the idea of representing as a substantive acting for others does apply. Political questions are not likely to be as arbitrary as a choice between two foods; nor are they likely to be questions of knowledge to which an expert can supply the one correct answer. They are questions about action, about what should be done; consequently they involve both facts and value commitments, both ends and means.”</mark> [Page 219](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=219&annotation=35YD74WC) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"But this is precisely the kind of context in which representation as a substantive activity is relevant. For representation is not needed where we expect scientifically true answers, where no value commitments, no decisions, no judgment are involved. And representation is impossible (except in a formalistic or symbolic or descriptive sense) where a totally arbitrary choice is called for, where deliberation and reason are irrelevant. We need representation precisely where we are not content to leave matters to the expert; we can have substantive representation only where interest is involved, that is, where decisions are not merely arbitrary choices.”</mark> [Page 219](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=219&annotation=7E7NKECN) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"We have said that the representative must pursue his constituents&#39; interest, in a manner at least potentially responsive to their wishes, and that conflict between them must be justifiable in terms of that interest. But what becomes of terms like &quot;interest&quot; and &quot;justifiable&quot; if there can be lifelong, profound disagreement among men as to what their interest is—disagreement that remains despite deliberation and justification and argument? To the extent that this is so, the possibility of a substantive acting for others breaks down, and that view of the concept becomes irrelevant to politics.”</mark> [Page 220](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=220&annotation=IVQWIQLM) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"Within any functioning representative system, the same considerations apply to the personality of the legislator and to the particular issue before him. A representative who characteristically feels sure of his own knowledge and convictions is more likely to act on them; one who tends to feel skeptical and cautious about his own views is more likely to want to know what his constituents think.”</mark> [Page 221](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=221&annotation=I4UBBMY6) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"Furthermore, the representative who is an elected legislator does not represent his constituents on just any business, and by himself in isolation. He works with other representatives in an institutionalized context at a specific task—the governing of a nation or a state. This reintroduces the familiar problem of local or partial interests versus the national interest, and the question of the political representative&#39;s role with respect to them.”</mark> [Page 222](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=222&annotation=LV897QXX) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"If a man represents a particular constituency in the legislature, is his duty to pursue its interest or the interest of the nation as a whole?”</mark> [Page 222](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=222&annotation=FP2CX4MR) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"And, in a practical sense, it is politically and socially important that local and partial interests not be allowed to outweigh the needs and interests of the nation as a whole.”</mark> [Page 223](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=223&annotation=N4QVM6SG) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"About final-objective-interest one could say that the interest of the parts adds up to the interest of the whole, but such an optimistic formula must not be allowed to obscure the obvious conflicts in initial-interest-claim. Politics entails the reconciliation of conflicting claims, each usually with some justice on its side; the harmony of final-objective-interests must be created.”</mark> [Page 225](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=225&annotation=N362GAJ9) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"The representative is, typically, both special pleader and judge, an agent of his locality as well as a governor of the nation.”</mark> [Page 225](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=225&annotation=77QBNGID) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"while it may be difficult to determine the interest”</mark> [Page 226](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=226&annotation=EHCTPL85) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"220 POLITICAL REPRESENTATION or wishes of a single individual, it is infinitely more difficult to do so for a constituency of thousands. On many issues a constituency may not have any interest, or its members may have several conflicting interests.13 And the representative knows of the voters&#39; ignorance and apathy and irrationality, the diversity of their views and interests. Further, he seldom has access to accurate information about what views and interests they do have.”</mark> [Page 227](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=227&annotation=ZUJR3NPY) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"To act effectively he must keep in mind not only the formal and informal rules of his legislative body but also its place in the whole structure of government.”</mark> [Page 227](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=227&annotation=8G6X8YSS) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"n the third place, he will also have views and opinions, at least on some issues. He will feel that some measures are intrinsically unsound, immoral, or undesirable.”</mark> [Page 227](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=227&annotation=3GTR47AI) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"The majority of my constituents occasionally lack knowledge of relevant facts and circumstances. For me not to take this into account would be a violation of my oath of office as a legislator, not to mention my obligation to my own conscience, judgment and sense of duty.”</mark> [Page 229](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=229&annotation=S2BRRZ3K) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"Think of the same body as a symbol and you will almost inevitably be more concerned with its psychological impact on the minds of the people than with any accuracy of correspondence between it and the nation. Think of it, in turn, as an agent or collection of agents, and your interest will focus on other concerns. Thus it is necessary to know what each view implies and assumes, and which view is appropriate under the circumstances.”</mark> [Page 233](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=233&annotation=TDSCV4XY) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"It is sometimes argued, particularly by authorization theorists, that every government represents its subjects in the sense that it has authority over them and makes laws for them.26 Governments do have that authority; the authority to make laws seems part of the very meaning of government. Yet authority is not coextensive with representation; one need not represent in order to have authority to issue orders. But a government also acts in the name of its subjects. Thus a slightly modified position would be that all governments represent in the formalistic sense that their actions not only bind their subjects but are attributed to these subjects.”</mark> [Page 235](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=235&annotation=CBZXKGF7) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"The will on which a government rests may be democratic, even if oligarchic or plutocratic influences are powerful in creating it. It is quite possible that an interested minority may so control the avenues of information and suggestion that a majority will suffer persuasion contrary to their own interests. The decision of a leader may induce millions to support measures which they would have opposed if his prestige had been thrown to the other side.”</mark> [Page 236](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=236&annotation=N93TR6FX) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"If support for the regime is manufactured by way of a monopoly of control over the media of mass communication, supplemented by severe coercion against oppositional elements. ... If a political regime relies heavily on a highly organized propaganda monopoly, . . . and ruthlessly suppresses all political dissent, one must conclude that no amount of evidence of public support to the regime can prove that the people&#39;s genuine interests are not being exploited in the interest of the ruling few.”</mark> [Page 239](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=239&annotation=LJKXUXA7) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"By the same token, no amount of public support can then prove that the government is a representative one. When a ruler manipulates an inert mass of followers to accord with his will, we hesitate to say that he represents them. In the same way, if an interest group engages in a vast propaganda campaign to persuade the public in favor of some measure, we do not regard this activity as representation of the public.”</mark> [Page 239](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=239&annotation=H6QLBEYG) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"to the contrary. There need not be a constant activity of responding, but there must be a constant condition of responsiveness, of potential readiness to respond. It is not that a government represents only when it is acting in response to an express popular wish; a representative government is one which is responsive to popular wishes when there are some. Hence there must be institutional arrangements for responsiveness to these wishes.”</mark> [Page 240](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=240&annotation=SXCU9GU3) 
	- <mark class="hltr-red">"We do not say that a government is representative today, because it happens to be responding to popular wishes, and stops being representative the next day because it is frustrating them. Representative government is not defined by particular actions at a particular moment, but by long-term systematic arrangements—by institutions and the way in which they function. No particular act of compliance with popular demands is proof of a representative government, although a few serious cases of the frustration of legitimate popular demands will serve as counterevidence.”</mark> [Page 241](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=241&annotation=DAKPQUSH) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"our basic prerequisites seem very few. We would be reluctant to consider any system a representative government unless it held regular elections, which were &quot;genuine&quot; or &quot;free.&quot;36 We would be reluctant, further, to consider a government representative unless it included some sort of collegiate representative body in a more than advisory capacity.37 We would not readily accept a system as representative in which the entire government was in the hands of a single ruler, even if he was subject to reelection at regular intervals. Perhaps it is merely historical tradition that there should be a collegiate body composed of representatives of the various &quot;parts&quot; of the society.”</mark> [Page 242](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=242&annotation=4DY4YH7U) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"For whatever reasons, and with no deliberate, common purpose, men may gradually develop fixed ways of doing something—institutionalized behavior which has become habitual. From this patterned behavior they may begin to abstract express ideas about what it is for, how it is to be done, what principles and purposes underlie it.”</mark> [Page 243](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=243&annotation=3MR8XLA9) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"And, in due time, those principles may themselves come to be used as new aims for revising the institution, as critical standards for assessing the way in which it functions and improving it. Again a tension between practice and principle can arise.”</mark> [Page 243](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=243&annotation=F894HU7A) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"Rather, it should present a continuing but not hopeless challenge: to construct institutions and train individuals in such a way that they engage in the pursuit of the public interest, the genuine representation of the public; and, at the same time, to remain critical of those institutions and that training, so that they are always open to further interpretation and reform.”</mark> [Page 247](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/NS9AM5YC?page=247&annotation=QT86RV4I) 

> [!context]-
> ==(How this article relates to other work in the field; how it ties in with key issues and findings by others, including yourself)==
> context:: 

> [!significance]-
> ==(to the field; in relation to your own work)==
> significance:: 