---
category: literature_note
aliases: 
  - The Two Cultures of Democratic Theory: Responsiveness, Democratic Quality, and the Empirical-Normative Divide
  - sabl2015
tags:
  - literature_note
  - zotero
  - 
citekey: sabl2015
---

|       Created       |    Last Modified    |          Exists Since           |
| :-----------------: | :-----------------: | :-----------------------------: |
| `= this.file.ctime` | `= this.file.mtime` | `= date(now) - this.file.ctime` |
>[!info] Metadata
> **FirstAuthor**:: Sabl, Andrew  
~    
> **Title**:: The Two Cultures of Democratic Theory: Responsiveness, Democratic Quality, and the Empirical-Normative Divide  
> **Year**:: 2015   
> **Citekey**:: sabl2015  
> **itemType**:: journalArticle  
> **Journal**:: *Perspectives on Politics*  
> **Volume**:: 13  
> **Issue**:: 2   
> **Pages**:: 345-365  
> **url**:: https://www.cambridge.org/core/product/identifier/S1537592715000079/type/journal_article
> **DOI**:: 10.1017/S1537592715000079    

> [!link]-
> zotero_link:: [Sabl_2015_The Two Cultures of Democratic Theory Responsiveness, Democratic Quality, and the Empirical-Normati.pdf](zotero://select/library/items/759HNXTM)

> [!cite]-
> citekey:: sabl2015

> [!abstract]-
> abstract:: Empirical political scientists and normative political theorists both seek to assess the quality of democracy. But they apply to this task very different criteria and assumptions. Empiricists (in particular those who study American politics) often assume that a—perhaps
              the
              —key indicator of democratic quality is responsiveness, the degree to which policy outcomes reflect public opinion. They often cite “democratic theory” as endorsing this criterion. Normative theorists, however, all but universally reject responsiveness, proposing instead very different criteria of democratic quality. I document a divide between two research cultures; trace some of its causes; and suggest some ways of overcoming it so that scholars on each side may benefit from the insights of the other. Empiricists, I argue, should acknowledge that the responsiveness criterion is neither value-neutral nor, in its pure form, particularly persuasive. Theorists adduce other criteria for sound and commonsensical reasons. In particular, to the extent that empiricists find that policy outcomes reflect not median voter preferences but either random factors or the concerns of the wealthy and organized, they would render their findings more compelling by presenting them as troubling according to a variety of persuasive democratic theories, not just a stylized theory that posits pure responsiveness as its ideal. Normative theorists, I argue, may learn from empiricists greater respect for ordinary citizens’ existing opinions, however imperfect the social and political circumstances in which they originate. and greater concern regarding empirical evidence that the median voter’s opinions may have little independent effect on policy. In spite of all this, the two cultures remain properly distinct in many respects. Some substantial differences in approach reflect a necessary, permanent, and salutary division of labor between two very different modes of studying democracy and assessing its quality.

> [!keywords]-
> keywords:: 

> [!authors]-
> authors:: Andrew Sabl

> [!related]-

```dataview
TABLE created, updated as modified, tags, type
FROM ""
WHERE related != null
AND contains(related, "sabl2015")
```

> [!hypothesis]-
> hypothesis:: 

> [!methodology]- 
> methodology:: 

> [!result]- Result(s) 
> results::

> [!summary]- Summary of Key Points
> summary:: 

# Notes

| <mark class="hltr-grey">Highlight Color</mark> | Meaning                       |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| <mark class="hltr-yellow">Yellow</mark>        | Interesting Point             |
| <mark class="hltr-orange">Orange</mark>        | Important Point By Author     |
| <mark class="hltr-red">Red</mark>              | Disagree with Author          |
| <mark class="hltr-blue">Blue</mark>            | Support the Author            |
| <mark class="hltr-magenta">Magenta</mark>      | Important To Me               |
| <mark class="hltr-purple">Purple</mark>        | Literary Note To Lookup Later |
| <mark class="hltr-green">Green</mark>          | Example                       |
| <mark class="hltr-grey">Grey</mark>            | New term, - definition        |

- <mark class="hltr-orange">"Empiricists (in particular those who study American politics) often assume that a—perhaps the—key indicator of democratic quality is responsiveness, the degree to which policy outcomes reflect public opinion. They often cite “democratic theory” as endorsing this criterion. Normative theorists, however, all but universally reject responsiveness, proposing instead very different criteria of democratic quality.”</mark> [Page ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/759HNXTM?page=&annotation=9N3GLBIQ) 
	- <mark class="hltr-yellow">"On the other hand, democratic theorists, due to their relative inattention to mass public opinion and its link to policy outcomes, often write as if the best objections to contemporary democracy remain essentially what they were from the 1950s through the 1970s: that democracy was too institutionalized and bureaucratic, insufficiently participatory.5”</mark> [Page 2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/759HNXTM?page=2&annotation=W2IAYT5B) 

> [!context]-
> ==(How this article relates to other work in the field; how it ties in with key issues and findings by others, including yourself)==
> context:: 

> [!significance]-
> ==(to the field; in relation to your own work)==
> significance:: 