---
title: GA2-Valencia
tags:
  - project
---

# GA2-Valencia
created: 2023-02-28 00:24

## WP4 Timeline

### WP4 

Hi everyone, my name is...

We are leading WP4 Commercialisation & Innovation



### 1. WP4​ Commercialisation & Innovation​ 

As you see, here we have the timeline of the wp4 tasks and deliverables. Right now we are about to go into the month 7, March. 

We have 2 tasks running since the beginning of the project.These are

- T4.1. Market analysis, business plan, and sustainability, **and**
- T4.4. Data Management & Governance

There are also 2 tasks in WP4 that are just starting in March in M7. These are:

 - T4.2. Innovation and IPR activities led by CERTH, **and**
- T4.3. Socio-economic & environmental impact generation lead by ZSI

We have also the deliverable D4.1 Data Management plan already delivered by TIC 4.0 and the next deliverable in the project T4.2 Busness Plan due to M12

Since in WP4 the tasks relatively distinct from each other, and are relying on the expertise of the specific task leads, we decided to leave the presentation of the task updates to the individual task leads. 

Therefore, I'll leave the word now to the colleagues from BEIA to present their updates about T4.1. Market analysis, business plan, and sustainability. 

---
### T4.1.

---
Ok, thank you Cornelia, if there are no further questions, the next task is Task 4.2. Innovation and IPR activities led by CERTH, would someone like to take the scene?

### T4.2

---
### T4.3 Overview
Ok, thank you. We are following with T4.3 Socio-economic & environmental impact generation. This task is to be led by ZSI , as I mentioned it is just starting. The timeframe is panning from M7 to almost the end of the project. I'll present an overview on the task, and the outline of our implementation plan. 

There are a number of partners involved in the task, each of them has 2 pms. The objective of the task is to ensure the socio-economic, and environmental impact of FF introduced to a broad stakeholder basis, and to increase the magnitude of those impacts.

The execution includes therefore firstly the identification, and categorisation of those impacts, as well as, mapping of the stakeholders. Different stakeholder groups are to be associated with different impact categories here. 

This basis will be used to create an outline for the impact maximisation which is to be encapsulated in the Deliverable 4.3 Initial plan for impact maximisation. After the deliverable, impact maximisation approach will be continued with feedback  cycles in order to refine and better the process. The end results will be fed into the Deliverable 4.5 which will wrap up the work done in WP4

---
### T4.3 Implementation Strategy Step 1/4

Now, we came up with a 4 step implementation plan, you are now seeing the first step of it which is all about capturing the impact to be generated by FOR-FREIGHT.

We are not starting from scratch here, as you see there are a couple deliverables from WP1, some of them are still to be developed, but we will be trying to gather relevant knowledge from those throughout the T4.3 process, and update our knowledge. There is also of course the work done in T4.1, the knowledge gathered for the business plan will be relevant for us as well. Furthermore, we will also reinforce our knowledge with a desk research in T4.3. 

The reason why we try to gather this knowledge is that we have defined a first set of questions we will be trying to answer in the preparation phase. 

For example, we want to know about the stakeholder demography. If any of the deliverables include more information about other potential stakeholders, we want to use that information. SImilarly, we will try to capture the whole scope of the potential impacts by looking at the work done in FF so far. The identification of the USPs, what FOR-FREIGHT is doing other projects don't is another important aspect for impact generation. And getting more knowledge to categorise impacts and stakeholders better is another beneficial part we can accumulate by analysing the previous work in FF.

There are other questions but it is a preliminary list, these questions will be updated throughout the task duration. After gathering this knowledge, as I mentioned, we will be categorising the identified impacts in the preparation phase.

---
### T4.3 Step 2-4/4

On the next step we will be mapping stakeholders and potentially categorise them under specific types. I say potentially because it is yet to see how much difference in stakeholder demography we will be seeing. We will also use the expertise of our consortium at that.

Then we will associate specific impact categories with specific stakeholder groups. It is important to adapt our approach in stakeholder engagement, as well as, to develop an outline for the impact maximisation strategy. 

After developing this outline, we will be continuing with stakeholder engagement, and feedback collection process. There will be mainly tailored workshops we will organise to engage the identified stakeholder groups. Potentially, we might also deploy a survey if the number of stakeholders really high.

Evaluation of the collected feedbacks will consitute the base of the Deliverable 4.3








## Referenceces
1.  [[FOR-FREIGHT]]