---
title: T1.4_20230613
tags:
  - fleeting_note
---

# T1.4_20230613
created: 2023-06-13 12:41

Carlos has been replaced by Gilson Miranda

Main services are connected to a **message translator**. Its main purpose is to ensure the management of requests forwarding and response receiving (mainly but not restricted to XML to JSON format converter). Since the API endpoints deliver data with varying structures, the message translator is standardising/normalising the communication with the central data platform. This apparat is the main issue right now, we will be getting more updates about this component. The structure was already delivered in the legacy systems mentioned in D1.2. (EDIFACT/XML to JSON translator as a legacy data converter system for example)

Legacy system wrappers are getting developed right now. Anonymisation -> conversion -> refinement -> prioritisation are the steps. Some questions to answer are: 
- *Who should do/build the anonymisation?* (question for the audience)
- How to prioritise the *messages*? 
- Historical data: single data dump or does it make sense to periodically update the historical data?

Central Data Platform components:
- DataHub
- DAta Extractor
- DataLake
- Data Management API (Access Control)

Next Steps:
- Define the needs of the message translator
- Solvers needed for per UC?
- UCs need third-party applications? -> Specify those!
- Message translator: keep minimal development effort while ensuring full coverage



## Referenceces
1. [[FOR-FREIGHT]]