---
title: T4.3-_-Work_Programme_Analysis
tags:
  - project_note 2023
  - professional
  - zsi
---
|     Created      |  Last Modified   |       Exists Since        |
|:----------------:|:----------------:|:----------------:|
| `= this.file.ctime` | `= this.file.mtime` | `= date(now) - this.file.ctime`|

# T4.3-_-Work_Programme_Analysis

## 2021-mobility-strategy-and-action-plan

1. **Sustainable and Smart Mobility Strategy**:
    - Emphasis on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and making transport more sustainable.
    - The importance of an interconnected multimodal transport system.
    - The role of digitalization in modernizing the transport system.
    - The vision of ensuring mobility is available and affordable for all.
	
2. **Smart Mobility**:
    - Plans to make connected and automated multimodal mobility a reality.
    - Development of a European mobility data space.
    - Emphasis on innovation, data, and AI for smart mobility.
    - The importance of drones and unmanned aircraft in the future of mobility.
	
3. **Infrastructure and Investment**:
    - The importance of investing in transport infrastructure for connectivity and economic functioning.
    - The need for modernizing fleets in all transport modes for low and zero-emission technology options.
    - Emphasis on strategic value chains, including batteries, raw materials, hydrogen, and renewable fuels.
    - The importance of the Single European Transport Area and ensuring a level playing field for operators.

### FOR-FREIGHT, connections
- **Sustainable Transportation Modes**: The EU's emphasis on reducing emissions aligns with FOR-FREIGHT's focus on using sustainable transportation modes like trains and subways.
- **Stakeholder Engagement**: The EU's strategy involves various stakeholders, which aligns with FOR-FREIGHT's approach to engaging with organizations and initiatives that share similar SDG objectives.
- **Multimodal Transportation**: The EU's focus on an interconnected multimodal transport system aligns with FOR-FREIGHT's mention of multimodal transportation in Europe.
- **Digitalization and AI**: The EU's emphasis on digitalization and AI for smart mobility could align with any technological solutions or platforms that FOR-FREIGHT might offer.
- **Infrastructure and Investment**: FOR-FREIGHT's alignment with SDGs, especially those related to infrastructure and innovation, could be relevant to the EU's plans for investing in transport infrastructure and modernizing fleets.

## References
1. [[FOR-FREIGHT]]