---
title: T5.3-Timeline
tags:
  - fleeting_note
---

# T5.3-Timeline
created: 2023-06-29 16:19

Dear Philippe,

  

I apologize for not being able to attend the WP5-Meeting today. With the numerous meetings and deadlines in late June, I have failed to notice the invitation. Rest assured, I have taken note of future meetings to avoid any further oversight.

  

We have outlined a tentative timeline for T5.3, which I have summarised below. I have also marked the objectives you mentioned and their approximate timeframes. I’ll also illustrate the timeline for the presentation regarding WP5 for the PMB-Meeting, and we will be turning it into an implementation plan after incorporating feedbacks until the T5.3 Kickoff-Meeting.

  

- **End of September**: T5.3 Kickoff-Meeting. As Dietmar has already mentioned this point at the previous WP5 meeting; this is a suitable opportunity to present the task timeline, share our estimations, and introduce the areas where we may need the assistance of specific partners.
- **October - January** 2024 (M13-M16): 

- Incorporation of the information gathered in T4.3 including;

- Impact categories, use case highlights,
- stakeholder mapping/categorisation related information, 
- updates regarding stakeholder information (there are different dimensions to what the efforts in T4.3 may yield about the stakeholder groups, one of those would be to assess the relevance of the inclusion of the secondary stakeholders for example)
- Further clustering of the stakeholders.

- Incorporation of the information presented in previous deliverables, and updates regarding the use cases

- T4.3 is already using the information gathered from D1.1, D1.2, and potentially also D4.2 soon. D1.3 will be a relevant asset as well.
- Especially after getting the confirmation about the use case development timeline in our bilateral meetings from different partners (was also relevant at our meeting with eBOS and CERTH), we are expecting to have even more information flow from the use cases in the last quarter. It is especially important for the future training activities to gather as much familiarity as we can with the use cases.

- Objectives to address: a (will be previously addressed at this point), b, c, partly e

- **February - April** 2024 (M17-M19): **Questionnaire** (preparation, deployment, evaluation, presentation of the results);

- This one is a critical time frame since the Deliverable D4.3 is due M18, March. 
- By then, we will have more idea about the following:

- Which stakeholders are willing to engage. Which stakeholder groups are relevant to which solutions in the project (if any distinction)
- What (possible) achievements in FOR-FREIGHT are relevant to the engaged stakeholders.  What to emphasise more.
- What kind of feedback we receive from the stakeholders (both about the envisioned achievements, and the current use case development).

- Only a rough estimation right now; however, our questionnaire should include, but not restricted to:

- A short validation part, introducing questions about the feedback we have gathered thus far.
- A main part, where we estimate, if our ideas about the training structure will be gaining traction. What aspects, parts of each solution/platform/tools we plan to communicate in which way, and gathering stakeholders’ interest about those points.
- A short part geared towards optimising schedule/tools/event details to ensure at most participation.  

- Objectives to address: partly d, e

- **May - June** 2024 (M20 - M21): **Training preparation**.

- This period is a little hard to estimate, since we will be needing relatively heavy participation of different partners, it might sway over the summer.
- Planning of the training structure, but also the definition of the monitoring process. How to assess if training process is fruitful.
- Decision over platform, tools, and other inventory.
- Objectives to address: f, g

-   **September** 2024 - onwards: **Training implementation** will begin during this period, and further details will be shared as we progress.

  

If you have any suggestions or input regarding the outlined timeline, I would be glad to hear them. I would like to also mention the objectives on the illustration of the timeline, as they summarise the milestones of the task precisely.

  

Best!

Utku.

## Referenceces
1. [[FOR-FREIGHT]]