---
title: IntelComp
tags:
- project_main_note 2022
---
|     Created      |  Last Modified   |       Exists Since        |
|:----------------:|:----------------:|:----------------:|
| `= this.file.ctime` | `= this.file.mtime` | `= date(now) - this.file.ctime`|

# IntelComp
created: 2022-06-23 02:18

## TODO
- [x] #todo Define STI-Viewer visualisations â« ğŸ›« 2022-06-23 â³ 2022-06-30 ğŸ“… 2022-06-30 âœ… 2022-06-30
- [x] #todo Enter IntelComp Minutes ğŸ”½ ğŸ“… 2022-06-29 âœ… 2022-09-23
- [x] #todo Review the reviews of D6.1. ğŸ“… 2022-06-29 âœ… 2022-06-30
- [x] #todo Inform Tessa and Aurelien about the Stakeholder Recr. Campaign ğŸ“… 2022-07-07 âœ… 2022-07-17
- [x] #todo Answer Asier's email âœ… 2022-07-07
- [x] #todo Check WP6 homework #today âœ… 2022-09-22
- [x] #todo Inform Daniel and Asier about STI-Viewer Demonstration & Workshop Design workshop #today â« âœ… 2022-09-21
- [x] #todo Inform LL-Leads and others about the doodle poll results [here](hook://email/6D5163C5-6BA2-413A-B86B-893BE690C457%40zsi.at) #today âœ… 2022-09-21
- [x] #todo Send the following link to the LLs https://zenodo.org/record/7085021#.Yywh47RByGQ #today âœ… 2022-09-22
- [x] #todo and this one https://github.com/IntelCompH2020/topicmodeler #today âœ… 2022-09-22
- [x] #todo Generate first ideas for the agenda of TestDrive Workshops and send to Asier and Dietmar #today â« ğŸ“… 2022-09-30 âœ… 2022-09-27
- [x] #todo Restore MiroBoard âœ… 2022-09-27
- [x] #todo Prepare the outline and possibly the homework for the WP6 Meeting on 29.07 #today âœ… 2022-09-27
- [x] #todo Use AIDA table to create word blocks related to stakeholder groups #today â« ğŸ“… 2022-09-28 âœ… 2022-09-29
- [x] #todo Build text blocks âœ… 2022-09-29
- [x] #todo Send STI-Viewer Links to the LLs âœ… 2022-10-05
- [x] #todo Preparation for SBM via minutes #today â« âœ… 2022-09-30
- [x] #todo Correct IntelComp hours [here](hook://email/00702749-335e-7ff6-d38d-29694fe22847%40zsi.at) â« âœ… 2022-10-04
- [x] #todo Prepare for the meeting #today âœ… 2022-10-10
- [x] #todo Prepare a google doc version of the homework âœ… 2022-10-10
- [x] #todo homework reminder #today âœ… 2022-10-12
- [x] #todo DO the homework for Society [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AKh85wXFurzhV8Wi7AeBpPd72UV44wOO/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=113352720081822823986&rtpof=true&sd=true) #today âœ… 2022-10-14
- [x] #todo IntelComp preparation [here](hook://email/89c33c09-be17-318d-70f6-76261083d5aa%40zsi.at) ğŸ›« 2022-10-17 âœ… 2022-10-18
- [x] #todo Enter IntelComp Minutes â« ğŸ›« 2022-11-11 âœ… 2023-02-23
- [x] #todo Venue for 14. und 15. (25-35 persons) #today â« ğŸ›« 2022-10-30 âœ… 2022-11-01
- [x] #todo Prepare Venue spread sheet, send it to dietmar [here](hook://email/0e5bcadd-8564-d852-e233-c4300874f16d%40zsi.at) ğŸ›« 2022-10-30 âœ… 2022-10-30
- [x] #todo check IntelComp repositories âœ… 2023-02-23

## GA in Vienna
- [x] #todo Solve the technic setup for the GA meeting ğŸ›« 2022-11-15 âœ… 2022-11-28
- [x] #todo Find a restaurant for social dinner ğŸ›« 2022-11-15 âœ… 2022-12-27
- [x] #todo Determine the WP6 meetings ğŸ›« 2022-11-16 â³ 2022-11-21 ğŸ“… 2022-11-21 âœ… 2022-11-21
- [x] #todo Remind Charis I got a room for them âœ… 2022-11-10
- [x] #todo Find the new meeting slot ğŸ›« 2022-11-13 âœ… 2022-11-13
- [x] #todo Find a catering firm ğŸ›« 2022-11-15 âœ… 2022-11-15
- [x] #todo bla bla ğŸ“… 2023-05-09 âœ… 2023-05-10

Dietmar (ZSI)

Dietmar (ZSI) says:AI: oct. 24 focus on general overview

Dietmar (ZSI) says:CC: oct. 31 focus is energy + STI viewer

Dietmar (ZSI) says:Cancer: think to switch things around - probably end of oct. on STI viewer

Joseba SanmartÃ­n (FECYT)

Joseba SanmartÃ­n (FECYT) says:AurÃ©lien, in case you are interested at OST. The new technical service on automatic classificatiion:

Joseba SanmartÃ­n (FECYT) says:[https://zenodo.org/record/7119075#.YzVTeUxByGQ](https://zenodo.org/record/7119075#.YzVTeUxByGQ)

10:13

Daniel Jimenez (NTTD)

Daniel Jimenez (NTTD) says:D6.2 : Report on the Artificial Intelligence Living Lab [36] Reports will be generated for all the living labs in the project to document user experience with the IntelComp platform, the main actions that were undertaken for co-creation of the platform visualizers and final evaluations of the capacity of the IntelComp tools in meeting the needs of Public Administrations and in involving stakeholders in policy processes. First reports will be delivered in M33 and circulated among all actors involved in each living lab. Consensuated final versions will be published at the conclusion of the project.

10:19

me says:[https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVPTaKbwA=/](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVPTaKbwA=/)

10:20

Dietmar (ZSI)

Dietmar (ZSI) says:[https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVPSR0ANA=/](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVPSR0ANA=/)

10:42

Joseba SanmartÃ­n (FECYT)

Joseba SanmartÃ­n (FECYT) says:Just a teaser of the STI Viewer

Joseba SanmartÃ­n (FECYT) says:[https://gatekeeper.cite.gr/auth/realms/testdev/protocol/openid-connect/auth?client_id=intelcomp-sti-viewer-staging&redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fic-sti-viewer.vhosts.cite.gr%2Flogin%3FreturnUrl%3D%252Findicator-report&state=ae12afbd-eb44-48e2-9215-dc1295373671&response_mode=fragment&response_type=code%20id_token%20token&scope=openid&nonce=4485cbcc-842c-43bd-8b19-3a8fdbf33ad5](https://gatekeeper.cite.gr/auth/realms/testdev/protocol/openid-connect/auth?client_id=intelcomp-sti-viewer-staging&redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Fic-sti-viewer.vhosts.cite.gr%2Flogin%3FreturnUrl%3D%252Findicator-report&state=ae12afbd-eb44-48e2-9215-dc1295373671&response_mode=fragment&response_type=code%20id_token%20token&scope=openid&nonce=4485cbcc-842c-43bd-8b19-3a8fdbf33ad5)

10:54

AurÃ©lien Leynet (HcÃ©res)

AurÃ©lien Leynet (HcÃ©res) says:a password is required.

10:54

Joseba SanmartÃ­n (FECYT)

Joseba SanmartÃ­n (FECYT) says:User. ic-sti-test-user

Joseba SanmartÃ­n (FECYT) says:PW: 1!hG#Is6oVMQ8wW7

10:55

## Wien

https://www.caritas-wien.at/fileadmin/storage/wien/shops-services/events-veranstaltungsraeume/gro%C3%9Fer-workshopraum-7-02.pdf
Tess Landon to Everyone (10:20)
http://alberthall.at/
Martin Felix Gajdusek to Everyone (10:21)
Volkskundemuseum hat auch einen Raum https://www.volkskundemuseum.at/vermietung

Volkskundemuseum hat auch einen Raum https://www.volkskundemuseum.at/vermietung
C3: https://www.centrum3.at/veranstaltungscentrum/raeume-mieten
Philipp Brugner to Everyone (10:23)
Urania Dachsaal findet auch viel statt
https://www.vhs.at/de/ueber-die-vhs/veranstaltungszentren

https://www.mqw.at/ihr-besuch/mq-libelle/

## TOREAD

- [ ] https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rfWCYW0jg9CSm0LSN4GlNQ9KNNracolU/edit#

## References
1. 
