---
title: STI-Viewer Demonstration
tags:
  - fleeting_note
---

# STI-Viewer Demonstration
created: 2022-10-10 11:45

There is a sharp decline in number of publications etc. in the recent years (e.g. 2021, 2022) because of the delay in the entry to the citation database repositories.
- We are explaining the situation in notes already but if there is another methodological adjustment method to this issue, it needs to be discussed with WP1 and WP3.

Open access versus total, if open access increases in relation to *total*, we should indicate that with percentages.
- It is being discussed to offer an option for relative and total number.

Right now we are limited to EU and EU-Countries as regional categories. An international comparison is not foreseen.

Where/When are we getting new data/ expanding the data sources we got? According to the LL needs or are there any other factors?
- Some data are already lined up regarding different categories like companies, industries and the like. Other type of data flow needs to be hastened a little bit. 

TODO: WP1 and WP6 were already discussing the policy questions and data sources but we need to organise a meeting between WP6, WP1, and WP2 to speed the data related decisions. Indicators are already ready in WP1 but we could help with the further work.

TODO: WP6 lead will be facilitating the communication between technical teams and the living labs.

TODO: It is to be decided if per capita calculation for example regarding the country comparisons necessary/relevant. 

A publication can be associated with multiple SDGs, right now they are counted as whole, no fractional counting. Methodology behind every visualisation should be explained for LLs to be ready for the events.

It is important to name the releases of the STI-Viewer and other tools as well as what is planned/available at each release so the stakeholders can follow the development. ==> There is already a plan to document the tools and the models in the data catalogue.

This version can be seen as the first deployment of STI-Viewer but the link to this version will be shared later with LL teams (in ~10 days).

More realistic approximation about the tools can probably be made after the integration meeting with BSC in early November if the issues regarding data catalogue can be solved (access/permissions related issues). ==> There are already advancements.

Stakeholders should be able to interact with the tool. Them not being able to use the tool could turn the workshops into one-sided presentations and potentially lead them to lose interest.

TODO: We should organise a competition analysis. What do other competitors of IntelComp use/offer? ==> We could group the functionalities into specific categories with the help of LLs and look for the other big players regarding each specific category.

It is more important to define what IntelComp tools offer in the first place, LLs should get the whole picture first. Otherwise it is hard to identify which projects/tools are the competitors of IntelComp.

LLs need transparency about the situation in development in order to manage the expectations of the stakeholders. LLs might be in favour of postponing things in order to have a more complete and stable product to present but they need stay in the loop to take such decisions. Pushing deadlines is not the solution but transparency is necessary.

In 10 to 15 day there will be a fully presentable demo for LLs, they will get a link and credentials.

It needs to be clarified which version of the STI-Viewer will be used in the anticipated trainings.

It is important stakeholders to understand what we do, it is already foreseen to synchronise the trainings and the LL workshops. As Joseba and Jeronimo will be doing at the Spanish workshop, it is foreseen to hold presentations at the beginning of the workshops to deliver an overview on the project. We can also have a specific training on the overview of the project.

It could be fruitful to LL leads and representatives from other WPs to come together after LL activities. ==> Those exchanges could be also done on collaborative documents.

TODO: Create collaborative documents for the exchanges between the LLs and the technical teams. Templates needed.













## Questions
- 
- What is the schedule regarding the trainings? Who do we train with which version?
- A specific training on the general overview of the whole IntelComp project?
- A discussion between the living labs and the technical teams about how did it go with the STI-Viewer?


## TODOs
- Postpone the LL-Events to be able to present a *complete* STI-Viewer deployment?
- 
## Referenceces
1. [[IntelComp]]