---
title: WP6 Meeting 20221022
tags:
  - fleeting_note
  - zsi
  - work
---

# WP6 Meeting 20221022
created: 2022-10-20 09:23

## Meeting with Joseba and Hero at 09:30

There is an urgent need for LLs to work more closely with the technical teams without overburdening the technical teams. 

There is possibility to extend the general assembly half a day to discuss these matters but the individual schedules might go against this idea. 

The tools are cannot be accessed from the outside although there is good progress in development. The delays will be minimal and the most of the issues will be solved in the meeting in Barcelona (8-9.11).

Technical teams will be also responding to the requests from the LLs. Jesus will be specifically address a request from LL-Cancer.

LL should take the role as product owners and lead the development from now on. The question is when they will be ready for this role.

Tool development is not ready yet to LLs to have a grasp on their functionalities. In order to start/ continue co-creation, first, the development should be matured, and second, LLs should be trained about the tools properly.

Interactive Model Trainer is ready for the first deployment, so, this tool is ready for those purposes. For the STI-Viewer, we need to discuss with ACR.

LLs need to where stakeholders' feedback can influence development and where they cannot. LLs need guidance on those points. ==>
It is LLs responsibility to be aware of the parts of development they can influence and they need to filter stakeholders' requests accordingly.


## Weekly meeting

A draft concept note for the LL-Workshops can be found under 
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sADJoTa9j9prHQWzOFclc4l0E6p6O2Ul/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=113352720081822823986&rtpof=true&sd=truewill 

and will be collectively extended by the LL-Teams.

A draft agenda for the STI-Viewer Workshop is also included in the google-doc. It is to be updated by the LL-Teams.

Functionalities of the tools are validated by the stakeholders. Even when they cannot try the functionalities personally, they can comment on the sufficiency of the functionality. Of course, this is not enough but it delivers at least some sense of validation.

LLs should have some prepared material to break the ice in the workshops. Furthermore for the stalemate situations in the workshops, there should be specific guidelines to revitalise the discussion. These point are getting addressed in the google-doc.

There will be more methodological workshops prepared by ZSI and NTTData to support the LLs on the possible workshop approaches and guidelines about feedback collection/management.

LLs will have an extended meeting (half a day) after the general assembly in Vienna to try to align with technical teams.

Thirsday the 3. and 17. 

## Referenceces
1. [[IntelComp]]





















