---
title: [[IntelComp]] WP6 Meeting 20220623
tags:
  - fleeting_note
---

# [[IntelComp]] WP6 Meeting 20220623
created: 2022-06-23 09:44

Finalisation of the D6.1., the reflections of the individual LLs.

The end document is taken well by the LLs. 

The stakeholder mapping into the annex? How to  decide which stakeholder names to share in the actual document. How comprehensive should the table in the text be?
We can keep it in the text.

Purpose of the document is to take snapshot of the work done so far. The reviewers will be reflecting on that if the document is intuitive. Since we have additional information in mind, it is hard for us to criticise how intuitive the deliverable is.

Vertical/ horizontal timeline inconsistency in the document. Some adjustment is needed, we can correct it before the next feedback round.

There is also text to add into the document from LL teams. Should we add those before the feedback from the reviewers or after the feedback round? 

-> Additional content to be entered before the feedback round.

A couple of updates on the document are to be implemented until the end of the week. 

Monitoring aspects are to be edited collaboratively. This section have been written partly unilaterally but it will be updated with the inputs from the LL teams. 

Another goal is to deploy *stakeholder recruitment campaign*. It is scheduled to 05.07.2022 10:00.

Stakeholder invitation in the middle of the Summer is not optimal for high turnout. LL Teams do not have to wait for the *stakeholder recruitment campaign* to send their invitations.

There is a creative stakeholder role reversal game on the MiroBoard, 




## Referenceces
1. 