---
title: WP6 Meeting 20230629
tags:
  - fleeting_note
---

# WP6 Meeting 20230629
created: 2023-06-29 17:45
## Climate Change

7-8 people joined since it was election time in Greece but the participation was meaningful. Useful feedback has been collected. The technical team was happy.

Next time we need a broader audience. 

usefulness over usability:

Participants shared their views on the STI Viewer and on what should be done additionally to suit their needs. Specifically the following key remarks were noted: -Add more filters about Climate Zones, Regions, Specific Countries (or even Crops) (it was commented that you can't go to every paper to see what is interesting for you and that you have to somehow narrow the information down to find what is interesting for your work) -A second level needs to be added in the patent graphs with a 2nd layer of classification (e.g. IPC Codes) to confine the search material and make it more accessible -It would be very useful to see which patents are already commercialised (who invested on them), what is already in the market and where it was commercialised -To export and share specific results the user needs to be able to narrow it down to specific time frames

---
## Survey

LL have to prepare the survey with the consideration of the stakeholder characteristics. Which makes it crucial to collect/enter metadata about different stakeholder groups on the stakholder registry spreadsheet. 

We are focusing on the representatives of each organisation, not the organisations themselves. In the AI, we are covered; regarding Health, we need more associations

We will invite LLs for a meeting about the survey. Since it is an EU project, instead of focusing on the turnout number, we will focus on the size/meaning of each organisation from which their representatives filled out the survey.

The dates are not decided yet but the structure of the survey should be shaped the next week already.

We need to first have the data on the STI-Viewer.


## WP6 Updates, June 2023

- The Evaluation Workbench Demo was showcased at the recent WP6 meeting to address any queries regarding its features and how it differs from the IMT.
- The outcomes of the LL events will be compiled in the [LL Feedback Template](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ktDO-2DktDTi04ueS66qKbagZGn69ruWWP6jnFOM4dY/edit?pli=1#gid=1712950565), a dynamic document that will be updated and expanded in line with the scope of the LL events. This feedback will form the foundation of the WP6 deliverables (D6.2, D6.3, D6.4).
- On June 6th, both the AI LL's Interactive Model Trainer Workshop and the Climate Change LL's workshop titled “Agri-Food: Indicators, Trends, Publications and Innovation” took place. A summary of these events can be found in the LL Feedback Template linked above.
- LL teams are going to prepare surveys about the STI-Viewer functionalities on the STI Participation Portal. They have already been populating the stakeholder registry spreadsheet with their stakeholder portfolios.
- To clear up any confusion about tool functionalities and underlying data, a portion of the WP6 meetings are dedicated to identifying and clarifying these aspects with the relevant consortium partners.
- 


## Referenceces
1. [[IntelComp]]