---
author: Utku B. Demir | 00848242
---
**author:** Utku B. Demir | 0848242

The analysis of any governing process is an analysis of how the will of its individuals is projected onto an operational structure for governance. If we are to take the will of individuals as Kant's *Dinge an sich*, they are always perceived through a projection on the political landscape. Even the direct democracy would include some kind of projection of the will of individuals in order to establish a functioning process in a pluralistic sense to at the very least to some extent.

Kelsen's [-@kelsen2017, 284] analysis of democracy and autocracy starts with the argumentation of the main course of the democracy being to harmonise the legal order of the state according to the will of the subjects, and that of autocracy the exact opposite. So, the democratic process is a function aiming to project every single element in a specific domain to a specific image. However, this does not necessarily answer the question what kind of a transformation the will of individuals will be going through which constitutes the basis of the question regarding the nature of representation.

As every societal governance inherently does, a social order deploys the necessity of the reduction of the individual independence. Kelsen [-@kelsen2017, 285ff] reflects on the initial limitless independence as a primitive kind of freedom in the *state of nature*. However, for the sake of distinction and by standing close to Kant's definition, an alternative to that would be to define the state of nature as total independence and the freedom as something we produce societally in a ironical sounding way by limiting individual independences.  As Kelsen cites from Rousseau, the only way to be able to deploy a *volonté générale* from a collection of *volonté de tous* is to produce freedom through the restriction of individual independence which could potentially allow individuals from preventing others' self determination chance. Through this formulation, as Kelsen notes, equality, suffrage, equal representation (or representation in equal proportion), freedom, freedom of speech are necessities for a democracy. As the projection of the *individual will* under democracy aims to first form a *public opinion*, and align the governmental process to the cultivated common will. Even the principle of the majority cannot boil down into the dominion of the majority as the will of the minority is a part of public opinion.

However, Kelsen defines the autocracy as the exact opposite of the representative democracy (see ibid.), whereas the will of the subjects do not matter in any way. An alternative formulation would be Pitkin's [-@pitkin1967, 228 - 232] consideration of the both directions; a dictatorship might be getting considerable public support either through manufacturing it or by using common cultural elements in the society. However in order it to be a representation, there needs to be also some possibility for representation to accountable, flexible, capable of self reflection and change before all.

>[!Question] Question 1 
>But, what is to be represented? Is it objectively determinable?

Directly reflecting on Pitkin's question [-@pitkin1967, 215], an immediate follow-up question to the democratic structure would be the nature of the representation. Kelsen [@kelsen2017, 285] already addresses to an inherent challenge in representation by mentioning how much control the individuals have on their representatives. This question is directly bound to the inherent question of to what extent representatives are to responsible of their individual constituents (most of the texts are touching this subject one way or other). Are the representatives responsible of delivering the interests of their constituents as directly as possible? Or are they the representatives of the whole nation once they are elected? What kind of proficiency should they be deploying, should their expertise determine the  actions? How much initiative should they be taking? How much power people should have over the elected representatives?

The coverage of representation is a multifaceted issue. Pitkin argues that what is to be represented extends beyond mere election or appointment to encompass the actions, interests, and intentions of the electorate.

> Where representation is conceived as being of unattached abstractions, the consultation of anyone's wishes or opinions is least likely to seem a significant part of representing. Burke did not think that representing had much to do with consulting the represented or doing what they wanted; that is because he was talking about the representation of unattached interests—interests to which no particular persons were so specially related that they could claim to be privileged to define the interest.

\- @pitkin1967, 210.

In this sense a representative is someone put in charge to define interest. As an expertise the representative agent is responsible is finding out about the public interest and taking action about it even when it is not apparent to the rest of the public. However, this challenge opens new questions. How can we assure such an expertise while even the electorate themselves cannot assess their interests. What if the question the representative facing is completely arbitrary choice, where deliberation might be irrelevant [@pitkin1967, 212]. 

A further point would be about accountability, in what terms the representative should be held accountable if not by their constituents. In the modern democracies, at least legally, the members of the parliament are not directly responsible of reflecting the interests of the electorate [@kelsen2017, 285ff], the decisions about the representatives can only be carried out by the court. Pitkin however argues [-@pitkin1967, 213] that the representative still have to pursue his constituents' interest, in a manner at least potentially responsive to their wishes, and that conflict between them must be justifiable in terms of that interest. This argumentation opens another dilemma whereas the representative with *technical expertise* is more likely to take initiative/action but wouldn't take constituents' interest much into consideration, and a more sceptical and cautious representative might be passivised. 

Finally, Pitkin argues that the behaviour of the representatives is bound to a much more prominent structure which is the political landscape on which these actors operate. They work with other representatives in an institutionalised context. The nature of the representation is rhizomatic in a sense. It has more to do with the network of representatives, organisations they have been subjected to but also the demography of the coalition, current network of representative bodies than their direct connection to the constituents. This remark also align's with the main argumentation of Manin [-@manin1997], whereas his historical analysis suggests that the object of representation has evolved over time, influenced by the dominant forms of government . The shift from individual representatives to party-based representation and then to media-driven politics indicates that the prominent element in the representation is actually the structure of the political entity which is mainly subject to historical societal changes more than anything else. Also following Castiglione and Warren's [-@disch2019] analysis taking the challenges posed by globalisation, technological changes, and shifting societal dynamics are the more important elements to understand the political landscape rather than looking at the constituent -  representative relationship which is why it became a possibility that the representation expands beyond the traditional electoral forms of participation.

>[!question] Question 2
> When do we say a government is representative?

>[!question] Question 3
> How can we guarantee the legitimacy of the representativeness? What is its relationship with authority?

Kelsen notes that although no such obligation exists, that a representative is not bound by the interest of their contituents or they cannot be recalled by them is at the end *a fiction*. At the end a representative is one way or another a proxy of the people's will on the legislative process [@kelsen2017, 286f]. Pitkin's framework suggests that the legitimacy of a representative government hinges on its responsiveness and accountability to the electorate. The relationship between representativeness and authority is mediated by the actions of the representatives, actions that must (somewhat) align with the interests and will of the people (not just representative's contituents). Guaranteeing the legitimacy of representativeness, therefore, involves mechanisms of accountability that ensure representatives act in accordance with the electorate's will. The democratic authority is justified and sustained through continuous responsiveness and the ability of the governed to hold their government accountable.

>[...]There need not be a constant activity of responding, but there must be a constant condition of responsiveness, of potential readiness to respond. It is not that a government represents only when it is acting in response to an express popular wish; a representative government is one which is responsive to popular wishes when there are some. Hence there must be institutional arrangements for responsiveness to these wishes.

\- @pitkin1967, 233.

Although Pitkin does not go further into what should be ensuring the ongoing legitimacy of the representativeness, she on the one side bounds the legitimacy with the institutions. So, the institutional structures are there to ensure the democratic process and the legitimacy of the representative governance. Even a non-binding institutionalisation deploys responsiveness to some extent. Therefore Charles the I. was that eager to dissolve a parliament which didn't even have any kind of authority. However, developing fixed ways of doing something, "institutionalised behaviour" might become habitual and lose its flexibility to adapt itself to changing conditions. So, a system without the ability of **self reflection** and change cannot deploy a legitimate representation in the long term. This can be thought to be an *institutional responsiveness* instead of the individual responsiveness of individual representatives or political parties.

In Manin's case, the legitimacy of representativeness and its relationship with authority evolves the forms of representative government. A government's authority is legitimate when it (accurately) reflects the established norms and practices of its time, whether through direct representation, party systems, or the influence of media and personalities in audience democracy whatever the setting of a specific period might be (which is also directly bound with the quality *responsiveness*). The guarantee of legitimacy in representativeness thus involves adherence to the evolving democratic practices that ensure the government remains connected to and reflective of the electorate's will (this time in a structural sense rather than a contextual one). Castiglione and Warren introduce a broader perspective on the representational legitimacy by including diverse forms of engagement and participation. The legitimacy of a representative government, in their view, is guaranteed not only through electoral processes but also through inclusive practices that engage a broad spectrum of society in a similar structural fashion. The relationship between representativeness and authority is strengthened when the government can mobilise/represent various voices and interests, ensuring that representation is not only formal but organic. Thus, legitimacy is rooted in a government's ability to genuinely represent its pluralistic society (or measured by how pluralistic it is able to represent the society).

# References
1. Disch, Lisa, Mathijs Van De Sande, and Nadia Urbinati, eds. 2019. _The Constructivist Turn in Political Representation_. 1st ed. Edinburgh University Press. doi:[10.3366/edinburgh/9781474442602.001.0001](https://doi.org/10.3366/edinburgh/9781474442602.001.0001).
2. Kelsen, Hans. 2017. _General Theory of Law & State_. Edited by Hans Kelsen and A. Javier Treviño. 1st ed. Routledge. doi:[10.4324/9780203790960](https://doi.org/10.4324/9780203790960).
3. Manin, Bernard. 1997. _The Principles of Representative Government_. 1st ed. Cambridge University Press. doi:[10.1017/CBO9780511659935](https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511659935).
4. Pitkin, Hanna Fenichel. 1967. _The Concept of Representation_. 1. paperback ed., [Nachdr.]. Berkeley, Calif.: Univ. of California Press.
5. [[2024SS_M11-SE_-_Forschungspraktikum]]