---
title: 2024-08-12
tags:
  - daily_note
exercise: 2
moneySpent: 
meditation:
productive:
---
# 2024-08-12
created: 2024-08-12 10:06

> [!instruction]- Current Morning Routine
> - [ ] [Play The Tape Through to the END](https://youtu.be/6CWq8wyS90o?si=FdqthmYdGg12ubuB)
> 	- Walk through the actions you're going to be taking (hour by hour)
> 	- And the consequences of each (even how you are going to feel after each step)
> - Drink water + himalayan salt, 2 Brazilian nuts, take D3, Zinc, TA
> - Mo, Tue, Wed: L-Tyrosine, recover in the following days
> - Consider adding novelty to the steps (even novelty in training)
> - Add some pain into the mix

## TODOs
>[!tip] TODOs assigned
> ```tasks
> #(happens  today)
> (has start date) OR (has due date) OR (has scheduled date)
> (starts before tomorrow) OR (due before tomorrow) OR (scheduled before tomorrow)
> not done
> group by priority
> # group by filename
> # group by heading
> ```

>[!todoist]- TODOs today
> 

>[!tldr]- TO{READ, WATCH}
> ```tasks
> # tags include #todo/read OR #todo/watch 
> tags regex matches /#todo/
> not done
> # group by priority
> group by tags
> group by folder
> # group by filename
> # group by heading
> ```

>[!question]- TODOs all
> ```tasks
> not done
> group by priority
> group by filename
> ```

>[!success]- TODOs done this week
> ```tasks
> # done after one week ago
> done after this sunday
> group by done
>  ```

## Spending
```python
l = []
import math as m
print(m.fsum(l))
```

##
### Dream

### Appreciation

### Diary
Again, a weekend, I couldn't come back to my responsibilities. Couldn't write a word. 

But I spent time with Jonas. I picked him up on Saturday, we went swimming at Stadionbad, and we finalised the day with my home made burgers. We had our breakfast of toasts in Stadpark on Sunday, we played basketball, we picked up ice cream at Gelataria Romana. I am hesitant at times, it feels like I cannot really do things I actually should be doing, say the things that actually could help him, but I still felt like a happy child with him. 

I met Gabija in the evening, we went swimming at USUS. Lovely evening, with responsibilities in the depths of my mind. I love seeing her happy while spending time with me, I love it when she feels content, I love it when she gets lost in her own stories.

## Referenceces
1. [[Daily Notes]]
2. [[2024-08-11|Yesterday]]

# Day planner

- [ ] 09:00 - 13:00 Work
- [ ] 13:00 - 15:00 Arzt/Training
- [ ] 15:00 - 17:00 Work
- [ ] 17:00 - 19:00 Sonnenbrille
- [ ] 19:00 - 21:10 More Work