---
title: 20240712
tags:
- project_note 2024
---
|     Created      |  Last Modified   |       Exists Since        |
|:----------------:|:----------------:|:----------------:|
| `= this.file.ctime` | `= this.file.mtime` | `= date(now) - this.file.ctime`|

# 20240712
So, there exist a specific piece of architecture which is arguably one of the best examples of „this“, and for me the most beautiful one <location>

But instead of applying this style unique to Istanbul, the new examples of it are grotesque and redundant examples (in the background) with a single purpose to suffocate the remnants of an old republic (foreground). A segmentary, and barbarian imperialism with little to none biological aspect. 

This is an interplay between the nationalism and religious powers. But the nationalism is bound to be beaten by the religion. It is tying to beat the other by replicating the same machinery. However, even if there is a possiblity for a revolutionary movement to use the same machinery from before, clinging onto it long enough ends up in replicating the episteme of the former structure as well. 

And I am bound to be close enough … I cannot fight it, I cannot fight for it, I cannot leave it behind. There is no connection, no disjunction, I am a celibate machine on this surface.

A surface is just an instance of becoming though, it can be de- and reterritorialised. However in order to desire connections in a future instance, I should have been able to find myself in some flows by now. […] I lack the foundation of my grand grandfather's, my father's and now, my son's. I am more of my grandfather's in denial of anything that would affiliate me to a territory, […] Even he found a flow in his gambling addiction, his investment in the possiblity of a nomadic connection albeit its cliche kept him alive. I couldn't even get addicted to the sweetest of drugs, I lost them to my anxious and neurotic cowardness. The window of opportunity is long gone but I would kill for an addiction right now. 

## References
1. [[WRI]]
